zonal employee discount (zed) travel policy  
(6e employees traveling on oals)

1. objective 
1.1 provides eligibility, guidelines for 6e employees travelling on other airlines (oals) 
1.2 this policy is with effect from 29 december, 2022 
 
2. coverage 
this policy shall be applicable to all indigo on  roll employees and full time consultants, who have completed 
6 (six) months with indigo  
 
3. definitions 
 
 zmf- zed-miba forum (zmf) is an international air transport association (iata) interest group of 
which your airline is a member. it is an umbrella organisation, comprising zed, which is for leisure 
travel, and miba, which is for duty travel.  
 
zed : zed, which is for leisure travel, stands for zonal employee discount. over 300 airlines are 
participating in this agreement. employees of these airlines can fly with the participating airlines 
for reduced rates. in short, zed participation will enable indigo employees to travel on other airlines 
(oal) for leisure travel on stand-by basis.

 myidtravel: myidtravel is a technology solutions platform provided by lufthansa industry solutions 
for employees to book and manage their tickets similar to indigo staff leisure travel portal, but on  
other airlines. as majority of the airlines who participate in zed use myid platform, indigo will be 
able to tie-up with key carriers through myid platform.    
 
 employing carrier: in zed-miba context, employing carrier is the airline whose employee is trying to 
book a ticket for either leisure or duty travel on myidtravel. 
 
 transporting carrier: transporting carrier is the airline on which the employee makes the booking for 
travel. 
 
4. eligible travelers 
 
4.1 eligible travelers are divided under two categories, mandatory and optional. while mandatory 
persons list shall remain the same across airlines and they can avail this benefit, optional travelers would 
mean that the list of travelers under this category are eligible to avail this benefit only if bilaterally agreed 
in zed id agreement between two airlines. for example, qatar airways might allow siblings to travel while 
air france might not.   
 
eligible persons mandatory for personal travel 
 active employees of the zmf participating airline  
 spouse of the employee 
 children, under 24 years of age, of the employee

eligible persons optional for personal travel 
 children, 24 years of age and over, of employee 
 parents of employee 
 sisters and brothers of employee (employees siblings) 
 
4.2 please refer id agreements section on the home page of myid platform, which will provide information 
with respect to zed agreements with different carriers. select the respective airline and you c an find all 
relevant information like eligible travelers on that airline, fare levels, embargos, etc. 
 
4.3 employees nominations on zed travel shall be dependent on who  all has the employee nominated 
under their indigo staff leisure travel (slt). for e.g, if an employee is booking travel for spouse on 
myidtravel and spouse has not been nominated under indigo slt, the employee will not be able to make 
a booking for their spouse. however, this does not mean that all nominations on slt shall be eligible to 
avail the zed travel benefit. it shall be basis the eligible travelers mentioned under 4.1 above. 
 
5.  reservation status 
the reservation status shall always be space available only (standby)

6. identification  
 
eligible travelers must carry valid proof of identification as accepted by the transporting airline and 
employee identification card. the transporting airline reserves the right to refuse travel in case appropriate 
proof of identification is not provided as per the policies of the transporting airline. employees must also 
carry all relevant documents while travelling. 
 
7. dress code and code of conduct 
 
eligible travelers must adhere to the dress code of the transporting airline. the same can be found on 
www.flyzed.info. transporting airline reserves the right to refuse travel if any eligible person fails to adhere 
to the dress code as per the transporting airline policy. 
 
8. travel documents 
 
eligible persons are expected to carry all important travel documents s uch as visa, passport, health 
certificate, travel insurance, etc. of the destination country and any points en -route,in case travelers are 
offloaded at any point en-route owing to any constraints. indigo shall not be responsible or liable for any 
compensation / remedy, if a traveler is offloaded at any point en-route.  
 
for example, if an eligible person has booked del-lhr-jfk and they are onboarded for del-lhr flight given 
space availability. however, they are offloaded at lhr due to space constraints or any other reason, and 
the next available flight is two days later. in such cases, if an eligible person in not carrying a valid uk 
visa, they may have to stay at the airport until next flight. further, any expenses during such stay at airport 
or outside will not be responsibility of transporting or employing airline.

9. baggage acceptance 
 
transporting carrier shall grant eligible travelers minimum baggage allowance as per zed -miba guidelines. 
excess baggage charges, if any, may be collected by the transporting airline at its discretion. further, eligible 
travelers may or may not be compensa ted for delayed, damaged or lost baggage as per the policies of the 
transporting airline. eligible persons are requested to refer transporting airlines policy on flyzed.info, as  well 
as on transporting airlines website for such information. 
 
10. exclusions:  
 
10. 1 special services : special services are not applicable under this benefit. eligible travelers under this 
program does not count towards any frequent flyer program. further, eligible travelers persons should not 
expect any facilities such as lounge, air miles, ground facilities, special offers, meals, etc. 
 
10.2 unaccompanied minors / young travelers  : children under the age of 16 are expected to travel with an 
adult eligible under this agreement. booking of an unaccompanied minor is not allowed.   
 
10.3 codeshare flights: codeshare flights are excluded under this agreement.  
 
11. non-acceptance / deplanement/ offloading 
 
in case an eligible person is offloaded or not accepted at starting point or en -route, transporting airline 
is not liable to pay any compensation related to any expenses. travel under this agreement is standby 
and eligible persons are required to make all arrangements for themselves in such cases including visa 
and onward or return travel arrangements in case seat is not available on preferred flight.

for eg. a person travelling under this agreement on del-doh-jfk gets offloaded at doh owing to space 
availability constraints in doh -jfk flight, all expenses related to hotels, communication, transportation, 
meals, etc. will be the borne by such person.    
 
 
12. valid for personal travel only 
 
zed tickets should only be used for personal leisure travel. travel undertaken for any remuneration, third 
party, business travel, etc. not related to indigo is not permitted.  
 
13. fare calculation 
 
zone fares are based on agreed fixed amount per segment or per coupon. the same is based on the 
following-  
 
a) zone fare is an agreed fixed amount (distance related) per segment or ticket coupon issued. 
 distance: fares have been divided into nine mileage bands and hence is based on the di stance of 
the sector you are traveling 
 
 five fare levels for leisure travel: there are five fare levels for each mileage band, and basis the level 
agreed between two airlines in id agreement, fare is calculated. for example, on del -lhr, british 
airways might charge more than virgin atlantic even though distance is the same. 
 
b) second component of fare is myid  service fee, which is a fixed fee and subject to revision basis zmf 
guidelines. service fee is applicable per coupon. for example, if an employee is travelling with their 
child on del -doh-jfk, total service fee applicable on this journey will be 22x (2 travelers2 
sectorsservice fee)

c) over and above the two components mentioned earlier, total charge will include all applicable taxes, 
fees, and charges (tfc) as applicable to the customers of the transporting carrier. 
 
d) foreign currency conversion fee may be charged by the bank of the user while making payment. this 
fee is non-refundable 
 
e) any other charges as bilaterally agreed between two parties.  
 
 
child / infant fares- 
 
children (age 2-11, inclusive) are charged around 67 of the adu lt fare plus applicable service fee and 
tfcs.  
infants are charged 0 of the adult fare, i.e, infants shall not be charged any zone fare, however, shall be 
charged applicable service fee and tfcs. 
 
the above are revised by zmf every year and hence are subj ect to change. further, the above zmf fares 
maybe used by airlines at their discretion. as a result, the actual fare for adult, children or infants may vary 
from the above calculation depending on the policies of the transporting airline. 
 
14. login  
 
myidtravel link is available on indigo slt webpage and mobile app. eligible employees will be directed 
to the myid webpage through on slt portal / mobile app.  incase you go to the myidtravel page through 
mobile app, it may take a few seconds for the myidtravel link to appear on the app.

15. payments:  
 
it is mandatory to make payment through the accepted credit card only (as accepted by transporting 
airline) to make booking.  
 
payment will be made in the default currency of the transporting airline. for example, qatar might have 
qatari riyal (qar) as the default currency for payment, however, klm shall have euros. rate of exchange 
(roe) will be applicable as per the user bank rate. the indian rupee conversion shall reflect while making 
a booking. 
 
 
16. refund:  
 
16.1 eligible travelers must initiate the refund after cancelling a particular segment. refunds are not 
automatically processed. refunds will be processed in the currency of the transporting airline at the 
applicable exchange rates in the original payment accou nt. foreign currency conversion fee charged by 
the bank of the user is non-refundable.  
 
16.2 incase of partial travel on a booking, zone fares are partially refundable. cancel the unused coupon and 
claim refund as per the refund process. for example, if an employee has booked del-doh-jfk and ended 
up only flying del-doh, fare for doh-jfk will be refunded.  
 
this is subject to transporting carrier policy. please refer id agreements and flyzed.info before making a 
booking.

16.3 in case of partial cancellation, service fee w.r.t unused coupons is not refundable. for example, if an  
employee has booked del -doh-jfk and ended up flying only del -doh, service fee for doh -jfk will not be 
refunded. however, in case of full cancellation of del-jfk, full-service fee will be refunded.   
 
 
17. differences between listing and booking  
 
booking is the first step in the process and is created after payment is made, which generates a unique ticket 
number and pnr  on a standby basis . re-booking allows you to re -book for some other date/time without 
cancelling the underlying pnr on same sector/airline/class. it is important to highlight again that any ticket 
which is issued for any particular sector/ travel class (economy) can only be re-booked on the originally issued 
sector/ travel class.   
 
listing is a process to re-book the same sector/segments on some other date/time. however, the listing feature 
can only be used if the underlying pnr has been cancelled before initiating refund. in this case e-ticket is still 
active and can be still re-booked.  
 
18. id agreements 
 
id agreements contain information such as agreement effective dates, embargos, fare levels, eligible persons, 
policies, etc. please go through the id agreements of the respective transporting airline before making any 
bookings.   
 
please note:  
 refer process document for booking, listing, modification, cancellation, and refund process.  
 please note that travel under policy is the responsibility of the eligible person. indigo is not liable under

any circumstances. eligible persons are requested to go through all the applicable policies of the 
transporting airline before making a booking under this agreement.  
 
information sources 
flyzed.info 
www.flyzed.info  
policy of the transporting airline including but not limited 
to dress code, booking  listing procedures, priority rules, 
etc.  
myidtravel website (id agreements) fare levels, eligible persons, embargos, etc. 
oal website 
check-in procedures, visa/ travel document requirements, 
etc. 
6e employees on oal documents 
faqs, policy and process document on my6eworld and 
indigo slt portal.  
please note that it is different from indigo slt and one should not confuse it with indigo slt 
 
 
please note: 
 any deviation from the above policy shall require the prior approval of head of human resources 
 company reserves the right to modify this policy without prior notice



table from page 11 - table 1
flyzed.info
www.flyzed.info	policy of the transporting airline including but not limited
to dress code, booking  listing procedures, priority rules,
etc.
myidtravel website (id agreements)	fare levels, eligible persons, embargos, etc.
oal website	check-in procedures, visa/ travel document requirements,
etc.
6e employees on oal documents	faqs, policy and process document on my6eworld and
indigo slt portal.
