travelite (india)
destination management company
india
nepal  bhutan  sri lanka  maldives

contents
welcome note   1
the travelite experience  2
map of indian subcontinent  3
golden triangle  4
golden triangle extensions  5
forts  palaces of rajasthan  6 
desert camps of rajasthan 8
rural rajasthan  9
himalayan beauty 10
luxury in north india 11
west bengal  sikkim 12
t emples, tribes  t ea 13
in the footsteps of buddha 14
river cruises 16
beach havens of india 17
gujarat to karnataka 18
kerala :  gods own country 19
t emple trails of t amil nadu 20
luxury in south india 21
wellness in india 22
luxury train journeys 24
wildlife encounters 26
special interest t ours 28
adventure in india 30
m.i.c.e 32
private charters 34
weddings in india 35
kingdom of nepal 36
bhutan : the dragon kingdom 38
sri lanka 40
maldives 42
north india
east  north east india
indian waterways
west  south india
concept tours
indian  sub-continent
well integrated ... in tourism industry
wealth ... of experience
focus... on service excellence
add value... to our agents
zero tolerance... in our team
nurture... long term relationships
innovate... unique products  services
continuous... learning
travelite (india) is a part of the ktc group. established in 
1943, our parent company, ktc india, pioneered luxury 
coach and car travel in the country. the group also includes 
ktc grand tours, our worldwide holiday division.  
nurtured with more than 70 years of experience, today 
travelite (india) has created a dynasty of professionalism, 
cultivated with experience in the indian tourism industry.
flowing from the top, service excellence is the foundation of 
ktc group, being our first virtue, embedded in our culture 
by founder owner, mr des raj singh. 
we work with our agents. we aspire to differentiate our 
agents from the masses, by offering them top of the league 
products and services. growth of our agents defines our 
success.
tourism is our business, but each tour is a travellers 
memory. we take responsibility to ensure these memories 
are cherished forever. we understand the significance of 
meticulous planning, cross checks, and follow ups to ensure 
seamless service.
our strongest business partners and team members have 
been with us longest, reiterating our belief that relationships 
are paramount in our business.
our aim is to exceed expectations of our travellers. 
innovation keeps us one step ahead and ensures we surprise 
th
our travellers even on their n  tour with us.
learning never stops and one can never learn enough! our 
corporate growth is driven by continuous learning and 
development of our team members - together we can touch 
the sky!
the travelite advantage

india is a medley of fascinating colours and cultures, an historical 
legacy, a canvas of architectural masterpieces, and an extravagant 
exuberance of royal splendour. this land of sages and ancient legends 
is home to the eternal symbol of love -  the taj mahal, magnificent forts 
and palaces of rajasthan, emerald beaches of goa and kerala, ancient 
caves of ajanta and ellora and the golden temple of amritsar. 
crowned by himalayas in the north and surrounded by oceans in the 
south, india offers a platter full of variety, packed in one country. 
ranging from walking trails through himalayan villages, to desert 
camps in the sand dunes, tribal and rural experiences, modern 
metropolitan cities, wildlife parks, serene backwaters, luxury trains, 
river cruises and adventure tours, the choice is only limited by your 
imagination!
in this brochure, we introduce you to the mesmerising beauty of the 
indian subcontinent. combining the cultural splendours of india with 
the snow covered himalayan peaks of nepal, the serenity of bhutan, 
green tea estates of sri lanka and the turquoise beaches of maldives, 
the indian sub continent treasures it all.
when travelling to india, it is worth taking a short trip to a 
neighbouring country, to enhance your experience. you will notice a 
striking similarity, yet subtle differences in the people, food, culture, 
religion and lifestyle in the entire subcontinent. it is in these 
differences that we celebrate the unity in diversity  of the indian 
subcontinent.
allow us to create an experience of a lifetime, an inspiring journey to an 
exotic land, discovering the people, culture, tradition, history and 
legacy of our incredible india and its neighbouring wonderlands. with 
our passion, experience and meticulous planning, we promise to weave 
memories you will cherish forever.
welcome aboard your indian voyage with travelite (india)

welcome to india : the land of euphoria
1www.traveliteindia.com

2
our price is constantly reviewed, to ensure it remains at the lowest 
level possible. we take pride in knowing that our tours offer excellent 
value for money. when compared to another tour of similar standard, 
we are confident that our tours will not be over priced. 
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
customized tailor made tours 
fixed departure tours 
hotel reservations 
sightseeing and excursion tours
unique culture connection experiences 
private plane  helicopter charter services 
government  vip delegations
incentive tours 
meetings  conference handling
land travel: we operate our own fleet of premium cars (e.g 
bmw, mercedes, audi) and luxury coaches (e.g volvo, king 
long)
air travel: domestic  international air tickets 
train travel: train tours around india; luxury train journeys 
of india 
facilitation services: transfers  assistance at all major 
airports  hotels across the indian subcontinent 
language speaking guides / escorts / interpreters
24 hours helpline service for our guests
service portfolio
our people
our service 
our products
our suggested hotels  restaurants 
our transport
 are the core of travelite (india), making each tour unique 
and interesting. from their gracious smile and friendly personality to 
their meticulous attention to detail, with every tour, they aim to achieve 
better than their best. with our high recruitment standards and regular 
performance reviews, we ensure we recruit and retain the best. 
commences as soon as we receive your enquiry. we 
ensure your enquiry is handled by experienced staff, who understand 
the significance of replying in time, suggesting itineraries that meet 
your precise requirements and operating the tour with utmost 
attention to detail. our staff will remain alert to your concerns and 
requirements till the time you return satisfied to your home country. 
 undergo continuous improvement. our central 
research team gathers innovative ideas from across the subcontinent. 
these ideas are discussed, deliberated and once tested and approved, 
immediately implemented in our tours. this ensures continuous 
innovation in our products, making our tours unique and interesting. 
are hand picked by us. 
our stringent selection criteria ensure we only approve the best in the 
category. our preferred properties are periodically reviewed by us for 
their facilities, service standards, maintenance standards, surrounding 
developments and assessed against client feedback. we continuously 
monitor new upcoming properties to ensure our guests receive the 
best. 
 is owned, managed and run by our parent company, 
ktc india. located in the same premises and operated by the same 
management allows us direct control over our vehicles and chauffeurs. 
our fleet is maintained sparkling new with utmost attention given to 
cleanliness, regular vehicle maintenance, timely road safety checks 
and regular fleet renewal policy.
the  travelite  experience

jammu  
kashmir
himachal pradesh
punjab
uttarakhand
haryana
delhi
uttar
pradeshrajasthan 
gujarat
madhya 
pradesh
sikkim
bihar
maharashtra
goa
karnataka
andhra
pradesh
tamil 
nadu
kerala
lakshadweep
chhattisgarh
orissa
jharkhand
west
bengal
tripura
meghalaya
assam
arunachal
pradesh
nagaland
manipur
mizoram
andaman  nicobar
nepal
sri lanka
bhutan
maldives
i n d i a
indian  sub-continent 
3www.traveliteindia.com

north  india
north india is a medley of kingdoms, cultures, traditions, 
architectural marvels and a spectrum of varied landscapes. ranging 
from the snow capped himalayan crown to the agriculturally rich 
plains of punjab, the arid deserts of rajasthan, the contrasting 
extremes of old and new delhi, the wonder of the world  taj mahal, 
and the ancient cities of haridwar and varanasi set along the banks 
of holy river ganges, north india offers a continuum of unique 
experiences. golden triangle
the most popular tour of india, the golden triangle tour, includes a 
visit to delhi, the capital of india; agra, land of the world famous taj 
mahal; and jaipur, the pink capital city of rajasthan. 
 the mughal city founded in the 16th century, is one of the most 
visited tourist city of india. agra is home to magnificent architectural 
masterpieces such as the beautiful wonder of the world, taj mahal and 
the splendid agra fort. the artisans of agra still practice the mughal 
art of marble in-lay work, creating magical beauty with marble. 
is an exuberance of colours, folk dances, and traditional arts 
and crafts. this princely city is home to a wonderful collection of 
palatial masterpieces such as the city palace, amber fort, jal mahal 
and hawa mahal. one of the most well planned cities of india, jaipur is 
built in 9 rectangular sectors symbolising 9 divisions of the universe, 
as per indian cosmology. 
, the power seat of india, is divided into two parts - old and new 
delhi. the walled city of old delhi narrates the history of the city, whilst 
the contemporary new delhi reflects the cosmopolitan face of india. 
from the chaotic streets of chandni chowk to the imposing features of 
lutyens delhi, this capital city encapsulates the extremes of historic 
and modern india. 
agra,  
jaipur
delhi  
 
north  india
4 did you know? the wonder of the world, taj mahal, was built over 22 years.
delhi 
agrajaipur 
khajuraho
varanasi
ranthambore 
bharatpur
jodhpur
udaipur
jaisalmer
bikaner
nimaj
pushkar
leh
manali
srinagar
mandawa
deogarhranakpur
gulmarg
jammu
dalhousie
shimla
amritsar
haridwar
rishikesh almora
nainital
dharamsala
north india
jammu  kashmir
haryana
punjab
himachal pradesh
uttarakhand
uttar pradesh
rajasthan

golden triangle extensions
spice up the classic golden triangle tour by extending it to any the 
following interesting destinations 
, the open air art gallery of rajasthan, is a quaint village in 
the heart of shekhawati region. mandawa has preserved fine examples 
of frescoes and painted havelis, as masterpieces of art from bygone era. 
, a small village near jaipur, is famous for its magnificent 
samode palace. an ideal location for a gala event or a palatial wedding, 
samode palace features extravagantly painted durbar hall and the 
exquisite sheesh mahal.
, is an architectural jewel spread over 25 
acres of land. cut into an hillside, the fort-palace is stepped, rising to 10 
levels and commanding the most splendid views of the region. 
, the city famous for its enchanting sculptured temples, 
which draw their inspiration from the ancient art of kama-sutra
, the oldest living city in the world! set along the banks of 
holy river ganges, varanasi is the spiritual hub of india. 
, the city of warrior kings, poets, musicians and saints. a 
historic city, gwalior is known for its old magnificent fort which houses 
a number of ruined palaces and interesting temples. 
mandawa
samode
neemrana fort-palace
khajuraho
varanasi
gwalior
suggested itineraries
classic golden triangle 
golden triangle with tigers 
golden triangle with samode 
golden triangle with neemrana
rustic charm of golden triangle 
images of north india 
grand heritage of north india
l   
l
l
l  
l
l
l  
:  delhi -  agra - jaipur -  delhi 
: delhi - jaipur - ranthambore  
bharatpur -  agra - delhi
: delhi - agra -  samode - jaipur - delhi
: delhi - neemrana - jaipur - agra - 
delhi
: delhi - mandawa  - jaipur  - agra - 
delhi 
: delhi - jaipur - agra - orchha / khajuraho - 
varanasi
: delhi  - jaipur - agra - gwalior  
orchha / khajuraho - varanasi
wildlife extensions 
ranthambore
bharatpur
sariska
, acclaimed as one of the best places in the world to 
photograph tigers in the wild.
, home to keoladeo ghana national park, one of the finest 
bird sanctuaries in asia
, the erstwhile hunting resort of the royal family of alwar, 
rajasthan
north  india
5www.traveliteindia.com

forts  palaces of rajasthan
indias forts and palaces are the countrys treasured manuscripts 
narrating the saga of this land of maharajas. the desert state of 
rajasthan is where history comes alive in the form of art, 
architecture, sculptures and cultures that brings thousands of 
heritage lovers to india. 
rajasthan houses the largest number of forts and palaces in the 
world. today, some of these architectural marvels have been 
converted into heritage hotels, allowing you the luxury of a palatial 
stay in india. 
jodhpur
udaipur
jaisalmer
 
, the blue hued city of rajasthan, houses the splendid 
mehrangarh fort, one of the most impressive and formidable 
structures in rajasthan. jodhpur is also home to the magnificent umaid 
bhawan palace, a fine example of early 20th century palatial 
architecture in india. 
, the lake city surrounded by aravalli ranges, is regarded as 
one of the most romantic cities of rajasthan. the majestic city palace in 
udaipur, is one of the largest palace complexes in rajasthan. taj lake 
palace, set in the middle of lake pichola, is an 18th century white 
marble and mosaic palace which is today a luxury hotel and the 
landmark property of udaipur. 
, the city of golden sand dunes, in the far west of rajasthan, 
is popularly called the golden city of india . jaisalmer fort is the 
second oldest fort of rajasthan, encapsulating five beautiful palaces. 
the grand havelis of jaisalmer, featuring intricate designs and 
luxurious interiors, are fine examples of architectural brilliance of the 
rajput maharajas. 

bikaner
kumbalgarh
chittaurgarh
, the camel city of india, is renowned for the best riding 
camels in the world. the junagarh fort in bikaner is an impressive 
formidable structure built in the 16th century. the relatively modern 
red sandstone palace, lalgarh palace, was built in the early 20th 
century and is an architectural marvel surrounded by sprawling lawns 
and gardens. 
, the magnificent fortress, stands unconquerable, 
except for once when the fort was conquered by emperor akbar. built 
on a hilltop, kumbhalgarh fort is circumferenced by a 36 kilometres 
long wall, claimed to be the second longest wall in the world, after the 
great wall of china. the fort encapsulates remains of erstwhile palaces 
and more than 300 temples. 
, the tragic historical fort of rajasthan, was occupied 
for more than 800 years before being abandoned in the 16th century. 
the fort was invaded thrice and on all three occasions the civilians of 
the region chose to sacrifice their lives rather than leading a life of 
submission. inside the fort are ruins of erstwhile palaces and temples 
still in active worship. 
north  india
6 did you know? india is the worlds largest democracy.

devigarh
pokaran
nimaj
, an 18th century palace nestled in the aravalli ranges, is 
situated in the village of delwara. it took years of restoration and 
rebuilding, to convert devigarh palace into one of indias top heritage 
palace hotels. the immaculate interiors of the palace are designed with 
detail, using local marbles and semi-precious stones, creating an 
eclectic mix of heritage and contemporary designing. 
, home to the magnificent yellow sandstone citadel, fort 
pokaran, is situated in the thar desert, between jodhpur and jaisalmer. 
fort pokaran encapsulates exquisite palaces, a museum showcasing an 
assortment of weapons, paintings, pottery and costumes of the 
erstwhile maharajas, and a heritage hotel run by the royal family. 
, is a small village famous for its splendid nimaj palace. one of 
the oldest heritage properties of india, nimaj palace is an architectural 
masterpiece. over centuries the thakurs of nimaj have refurbished the 
palace to evoke memories of their chivalrous days. the palace facade, 
painted in white, makes it a distinctive landmark in the region. 
khimsar
l   
l
 
l
l
l
, a quaint village perched on the edge of the thar desert, is 
renowned for its grand khimsar fort. a 16th century marvel, today the 
khimsar fort is a luxurious heritage hotel run by the 20th generation of 
royal lineage who still reside in the fort. 
: delhi - mandawa- bikaner - jaisalmer  -
pokaran - jodhpur  - udaipur  - jaipur  - agra -  delhi
: delhi - mandawa - kuchamman - khimsar - 
jaisalmer - jodhpur -  kumbalgarh - udaipur - chittaurgarh  -jaipur 
- delhi
: delhi - agra - samode - jaipur - neemrana 
- delhi
: delhi - agra - jaipur - nimaj - jodhpur -  pokaran - 
jaisalmer - bikaner - mandawa - delhi
: delhi - agra - jaipur - mandawa  
bikaner - jaisalmer - jodhpur - udaipur
suggested itineraries
deserts of rajasthan
forts of rajasthan 
palatial golden triangle 
 
desert delights 
taj mahal  gems of rajasthan 
north  india
7www.traveliteindia.com

north  india
rohetgarh
manvar
mandawa
abhaneri
nimaj
ranthambore
, located close to jodhpur, is a wilderness camp, with 
large tents furnished with typical rajasthani decor. the tents are set up 
around a central lounge and dining area, which is beautifully relaxing 
by day and romantically lit with candles by night. the camp is located 
on a small dune, with spectacular views. 
, a tented camp amidst the wilderness surrounded by sand 
dunes, is an oasis of rare exclusivity. 30 safari-style tents arranged in a 
semi-circle around a central durbar hall, allow for commanding views 
over the desert wilderness. these luxurious tents are more like mini-
marquees with polished teak furniture, rich jute rugs and lovely 
custom designed block-printed tent linings. 
, a quaint town in the heart of shekhawati region in 
rajasthan, offers rural charm in the form of mud cottages at the desert 
resort and spacious swiss tents at camp mandawa. 
, the historic site of 7th century step wells, offers rustic 
camps as an ideal stop over en-route the famous golden triangle. the 
camp offers 12 deluxe tents with wall to wall carpets, mesh windows, 
wood and wrought iron furniture. 
, a small village in central rajasthan is home to the luxurious 
chhatra sagar camp, set along the banks of a water reservoir. each tent 
is carefully hand stitched with interiors block printed in traditional 
floral motifs. the camp has 11 tents along the banks of the lake and 2 
tents atop a hill providing complete privacy and breathtaking 360 
degree views. 
, the wildlife hub of rajasthan, is home to a beautiful 
collection of desert camps ranging from the luxurious tents at oberoi 
vanyavilas and aman-i-khas, to the eco friendly lavish tents and 
cottages at sherbagh and khemvilas, deluxe cottages at tiger den and 
pugmark, and the budget tents at ranthambore bagh.
desert camps of rajasthan
rajasthan, home to the golden sand dunes, is a haven for desert 
camps in india. for the erstwhile maharajas, campaigning in distant 
lands meant long stays in desert camps. during wars or expeditions, 
camps were the only luxury available and soon these homes away 
from home evolved into mobile, mini-palaces.
today, rajasthan offers a wonderful selection of desert camps, to 
create the ideal nomadic desert retreat. most camps offer camel and 
jeep safaris to nearby villages and evening entertainment with bon 
fire, local musicians  dancers, puppet shows, juggling, and other 
regional performances. 
pushkar
nagaur
jaisalmer
l
l
l
l
osian
, is the hub of indias largest annual camel fair held in 
november every year. pushkar is home to a beautiful collection of 
desert camps, ranging from the luxurious tents at greenhouse and 
aaram bagh to the deluxe tents at pushkar bagh, which swing to life 
with people and large flocks of camel every november. 
, like pushkar, is home to an annual cattle fair, held in 
february every year.  founded in the 4th century, the city of nagaur is 
dominated by the nagaur fort complex, which encompasses luxury 
tents, using the finest of marwar traditional skills.
, the golden city of rajasthan and a haven for desert camps 
offers a wonderful selection of camps to suit every budget. popular 
desert camps in and around jaisalmer include: 
the serai, a luxury desert camp and spa, offers 21 tents, including a 
royal suite with its private pool, spa and lounging tent and 6 
luxury tents with private walled gardens and plunge pools. 
mirvana nature resort, located midway between pokhran and 
jaisalmer, provides 15 luxury tents, raised on a marble platform, 
crafted using local natural materials. being a nature resort, mirvana 
also offers organic food and fresh farm dairy. 
mool sagar camp, a historic camp with 18 luxurious tents, 
delightful stone pavilions and fountains, and a swimming pool, set 
amidst wonderful gardens. 
dune safari camp, in the sand dunes of sam, consists of 20 deluxe

delightful stone pavilions and fountains, and a swimming pool, set 
amidst wonderful gardens. 
dune safari camp, in the sand dunes of sam, consists of 20 deluxe 
tents, with a rustic charm. the camp can also arrange desert 
marathons and desert survival lessons for small groups. 
, is a famous landmark camp in the sand dunes of rajasthan. 
featuring a refreshing swimming pool, the camp is a feat of 
architectural engineering in the sand dunes. osian camp is famous for 
its safari bar, a wonderful place to relax in the evenings with a drink and 
cigar. 
8 did you know? sanskrit, the language of ancient india, is considered the mother of all languages.

rural rajasthan 
in the heart of rajasthan, lie a number of small towns and villages, 
which define the true essence of this land. a visit to these hidden 
gems, provides an opportunity to learn about the people, culture and 
lifestyle of rural india. stay at erstwhile forts and palaces, which 
have now been converted to heritage hotels, and experience the 
intriguing traditions and customs of tribal rajasthan. 
narlai
luni
chandelao
madhogarh
pachewar
bundi
, situated midway between jodhpur  udaipur, is known for its 
17th century villa, ravla narlai, now converted to a heritage hotel. a 
stay here, allows an opportunity to explore the surrounding village. 
, is a hub of activity with its many artisans fashioning metal, clay 
and wood into intricate designs, demonstrating the skills learnt over 
centuries. stay at fort chanwa of luni, an exceptional example of 
elegance and symmetry in indian architecture, now a heritage hotel. 
, a rustic village close to jodhpur, offers jeep, camel and 
bullock cart safari options to explore the village. chandelao artisans 
excel in pottery and weaving. the medieval fort of chandelao, has now 
been converted into a heritage hotel called chandelao garh. 
, the village of potters, carpenters and cobblers, 
displaying their skills pursuing their ancient family trades. stay at fort 
madhogarh, now a heritage hotel.
, is a village famous for pottery, carpets, tie and dye fabrics, 
terra cotta and nomadic blacksmiths. stay at pachewar fort, a well-
preserved 300 year old fort with massive ramparts, now a heritage 
hotel. 
, is home to an impressive medieval fort famous for its delicate 
miniatures, step-wells that functioned as water reservoirs centuries 
ago, and the nearby villages with more than 1,200 looms producing 
kota doriya saris. 
bijaipur
khempur
deogarh
  
jojawar
  
, a small rusty village, where life revolves around the 
beautiful bijaipur castle built in the 16th century. converted into a 
heritage hotel, bijaipur castle is the centre of attraction in bijaipur 
today. 
, is an ethnic village renowned for its trained marwari and 
kathiawari horses. ravla khempur, a converted heritage property, 
offers  the option to explore the nearby 
villages on horsebacks. 
, a charming village in 
the heart of rajasthan offers a 
convenient base for visiting the 
famous  kumbalgarh and 
chittaurgarh forts and the jain 
temples of ranakpur. 
deogarh fort, a magnificent 
architectural masterpiece, is 
now a heritage hotel. 
, in the foothills 
of aravalli ranges offers a 
unique train  safari 
through the picturesque 
aravallis. 
north  india
9www.traveliteindia.com

suggested itineraries
himalayan glory
himalayan moonland tour 
holy himalayas 
ladakh  nubra valley jeep safari 
a date with nature 
l  
l
l
l
 
l
: delhi - amritsar - dharamsala - manali -  keylong 
- sarchu  - leh -  alchi -  leh - delhi 
: delhi - manali - keylong  - sarchu - leh 
- delhi
: delhi - haridwar / rishikesh - shimla - manali  
- dharamsala - amritsar - delhi
: leh - alchi - khardung la pass - 
nubra valley - leh
: delhi - corbett - rishikesh - auli - kaudilya - 
haridwar - delhi
north  india
in the land of sages
dharamsala
amritsar
rishikesh
, a serene town overlooking the beautiful kangra valley, 
is the current home of his holiness the dalai lama. with strong 
tibetan influence, dharamsala is dotted with monks and monasteries 
and is an important pilgrimage site for buddhism in india.
, the seat of power of sikh religion in india, is flocked by 
thousands of pilgrims and tourists everyday. the main attraction of 
amritsar is the sparkling golden temple (harmandir sahib), 
surrounded by a reservoir, believed to be holy water. 
, set along the banks of holy river ganges, is the spiritual 
hub of hinduism and a centre of learning for yoga and meditation. 
himalayan beauty 
the himalayas extend over 2,500km in east-west and between a 
range of 250-425km in north-south direction. formed in three 
parallel ranges, the himalayas extend over more than one country. 
himalayan tours can be designed to suit diverse interests including 
adventure, culture, wellness, spiritual, wildlife, walking or leisure 
tours. 
ladakh
kumaon
manali
shimla
 
 
palampur
srinagar
, renowned for its remote mountain beauty, is strongly 
influenced by tibetan culture and popularly called little tibet of 
india. famous as the adventure capital of himalayas, ladakh offers 
mountain climbing, cycling, jeep safaris, yak safaris, mountaineering, 
river rafting, village walks and trekking. 
, towered by the highest himalayan ranges in india, is a 
confluence of cultures, architectural and archeological wonders such 
as jageshwar temple, katarmal sun temple, prehistoric rock art, and 
charming local villages blending british and kumaoni architecture. 
gems of kumaon region include the first british hill station of almora, 
the lake town of nainital and the wilderness of corbett national park. 
, nestled in the kullu valley, surrounded by snow-capped 
peaks, is known for its flourishing orchard industry, as trailhead for 
treks and for heli-skiing in the valley. 
, the former summer capital of british india, is set amidst snow 
capped mountains, which offer stunning views of the himalayas. 
shimla is an architectural legacy of the british raj, with mall, churches, 
theatre and half timbered bungalows peppered around town.  
, a quaint town in the foothills of himalayas, is the tea 
capital of northwest india and known for its colonial architecture and 
temples. set on the rising slopes of kangra valley, the scenery is 
dominated by rural plains and majestic hills, with pine scented air. 
, set along the banks of river jhelum in kashmir valley, was 
aptly named by the mughals as paradise on earth. set like a jeweled 
crown on the map of india, kashmir changes its hues with seasons - in 
winter, when snow carpets the mountains, there is skiing and sledge 
riding along the gentle slopes; in spring and summer, the honey-dewed 
orchards, rippling lakes make the valley breathtakingly beautiful. 
drifting down the serene lakes in shikaras and living in wooden 
houseboats are unique experiences offered by srinagar. 
10 did you know? indian city of varanasi is the oldest living city in the world. 
village walks  in the himalayas
one of the most fascinating and unique ways to discover the hidden 
beauty of himalayas is through village walks amidst the serenity of 
the mountains. a uniquely authentic himalayan experience, offers 
you ample opportunity for interaction with local villagers and

beauty of himalayas is through village walks amidst the serenity of 
the mountains. a uniquely authentic himalayan experience, offers 
you ample opportunity for interaction with local villagers and 
tribes of the region, along with a rare chance to stay in hand picked, 
renovated traditional village houses. alongside village walks and 
driving around the hilly terrain, you also get an opportunity to visit 
some of the famous hindu temples and buddhist monasteries of 
the region. 
available in  kumaon  ladakh  sikkim

north  india
desert camps
himalayan retreats
luxury in  around the capital city
 the serai, jaisalmer  chhatrasagar, nimaj 
 360 leti, almora  ananada in the himalayas, rishikesh  oberoi 
wildflower hall, shimla  the lalit  grand palace, srinagar
 the imperial, delhi  oberoi gurgaon  leela palace, delhi  dusit 
devrana, delhi  the oberoi, delhi
luxury in north india
the oberoi vilas
palace hotels
 amarvilas, agra  rajvilas, jaipur  vanyavilas, ranthambore 
 udaivilas, udaipur 
 taj umaid bhawan palace, jodhpur  taj rambagh palace, jaipur  
 taj jai mahal palace, jaipur  samode palace, samode  taj lake 
palace, udaipur   devigarh resort, udaipur  leela palace, udaipur 
 amanbagh, alwar  taj nadesar palace, varanasi 
11www.traveliteindia.com

east  north east india
this region of india is a confluence of cultures, peoples, history and 
traditions. ranging from the primitive tribal villages and temples of 
orissa, jharkhand and chhattisgarh, to the historic sites tracing the 
life of lord buddha, the cultural splendours of west bengal, the 
serenity and beauty of sikkim and the wildlife of assam, the east and 
north east regions treasure the unseen beauty of india. 
west bengal
l
l
l
sikkim
l
l
l
l
, one of the most culturally and ethnically diverse states 
of india, was an integral part of british india. the state offers varied 
landscapes ranging from the mighty himalayas in the north to the 
verdant plains, hilly terrains, and mangrove forests in the south. 
, the capital of west bengal, was the founding city of british 
east india company. an amalgamation of cultural and 
architectural legacy of british india, kolkata is famous as the city 
of joy, the hub of indian literature and the city chosen as home by 
mother teresa.  
, a serene hill resort, is famous for its tea plantations and 
breathtaking views of the snow capped himalayas. strongly 
influenced by tibetan culture and buddhism, darjeeling is 
peppered with monasteries. 
, a unesco world heritage site, treasures dense 
mangrove forests, winding rivers, narrow creeks, remote villages 
and tribal settlements, wild crocodiles, spotted deer, and the 
majestic royal bengal tiger. 
, the stunning himalayan paradise, offers breathtaking 
mountain views, monasteries in the clouds, mesmerising valleys, and 
serene experiences like village walks and sharing a cup of chai with 
monks! the diverse terrain and unfolding scenery of sikkim is best 
explored from:
, the picturesque capital city of sikkim, offers spectacular 
views of the snow capped mt kanchenjunga, the third highest peak 
in the world. 
, a little hamlet nestled in the himalayas, is known for 
its monastery, one of the oldest monastery in sikkim
, the beautiful hill town, is a meeting point of the three 
closed lands of tibet, nepal and bhutan. 
, a quaint hamlet in north sikkim, is dotted with hot springs, 
lakes and trek routes offering pristine himalayan purity and a 
flavour of local lifestyle.
kolkata
darjeeling
sunderbans
gangtok
pemayangste
kalimpong
lachen
east    north  east  india
12 did you know? india is one of the worlds largest and oldest civilizations. 
sikkim
bihar
chhattisgarh
jharkhand west
bengal
tripura
meghalaya
assam
arunachal
pradesh
nagaland
manipur
mizoram
orissa
darjeeling
sunderbans
gangtok
kalimpongpemayangste
bhubaneswar
puri
gopalpur
rayagadajeypore
kolkata
konark
guwahati
manas kaziranga
jorhat
east  north east india

temples, tribes  tea
bhubaneswar
puri
konark
chilika
gopalpur rayagada, jeypore
orissa
l
l
l
l
l
chhattisgarh
assam
, aptly called miniature india, is a fascinating state with 
unspoilt beaches, sprawling lakes, rich forests, historic monuments 
and temples, exotic handicrafts, traditional tribes, colourful fairs, 
festivals and dances. 
, the capital city of orissa, home to ancient rock cut 
caves, wall paintings and sculptures. 
, the beautiful beach town of orissa, known for the famous 
temple of lord jagannath. 
, a small hamlet, renowned for the magnificent konark sun 
temple. 
, asias largest brackish water lake, treasures a wide variety 
of migratory birds and dolphins.
,  are home to unusual tribes who still 
live in forests in a subsistence village economy, bartering their 
produce for survival. some of these primitive tribes are far 
removed from the concept of clothing and wear wooden and stone 
artefacts as cover. visit tribal villages and markets, and have first 
hand encounters with primitive tribes of india. 
, a treasure for mineral resources, is indias industrial 
hub for steel, aluminium and cement industries. the state of 
chhattisgarh is famous for its tussar  mulberry silks, ancient rock and 
limestone caves, chitrakote waterfalls - the largest waterfall in india, 
and for its unique tribal experiences which allow for visits to tribal 
villages, haat bazaars, and seeing tribal dances, festivities and 
museums. 
, a land nestled in myths and mysteries, has rich green terrain of 
rolling plains and dense forests. river brahmaputra charts its majestic 
course through assam, feeding majuli, the largest river island in the 
world. assam is renowned for its tea, rich flora and fauna, the world 
famous one horned rhinoceros and other rare species of wildlife found 
in kaziranga and manas national parks. 
the north eastern region of india includes unexplored states of 
meghalaya, arunachal pradesh, manipur, mizoram, tripura and 
nagaland. whilst not fully explored for tourism yet, this remote region 
is natures paradise. offering exotic landscapes of emerald green 
valleys, untouched wilderness, looming mountains, enchanting caves, 
serene blue lakes and rivers, cascading waterfalls, whispering pines 
and fresh air, the north eastern region of india offers all this and more. 
the tribal belt of this region includes unique ethnic tribes, with their 
distinctive habitats and lifestyles, not found anywhere else in india.  
: kolkata - bagdogra / 
darjeeling - pemayangste - gangtok - kalimpong - bagdogra / 
kolkata
: bhubaneshwar - puri - gopalpur - rayagada  
- jeypore  - gopalpur - bhubaneshwar
:  guwahati - jorhat - sibasagar - jorhat - toklai - 
kaziranga -  guwahati
: shillong - cherrapunji - kaziranga - kohima - 
touphema - dimori cove - jorhat - majuli -  guwahati
: dibrugarh - digboi - jorhat - kaziranga - guwahati
: guwahati - manas - nameri - kaziranga  
dibrugarh -  dibrusaikhowa -  deban - dibrugarh
other states of north east india
suggested itineraries
highlights of west bengal and sikkim
tribes of orissa
assam valley tour
natures paradise 
tea trails 
north eastern wildlife 
l  
l  
l   
l
l
l
east    north  east  india
13www.traveliteindia.com

in the footsteps of buddha
follow the path of enlightenment, in the footsteps of lord 
buddha, imprinted in the various buddhist pilgrimage sites 
associated with important milestones in the life of lord 
buddha. 
sravasti
nalanda 
rajgir
bodhgaya
sarnath
 (uttar pradesh), founded by the mythological king 
sravast, this land hosted lord buddha and his disciples for 24 
years. lord buddha is believed to have performed the only 
miracles of his life to convince the non-believers at sravasti. 
(bihar), treasures the ruins of the first residential 
international university of the world, where more than 10,000 
monk students studied and lived. though lord buddha visited 
nalanda several times during his lifetime, this famous center of 
buddhist learning shot to fame much later, during 5th-12th 
centuries
 (bihar), the town where lord buddha stayed for 12 
years and delivered many of his sermons. it was here that the 
teachings of lord buddha were recorded in writing for the first 
time. 
 (bihar), was the place where prince siddhartha 
attained enlightenment and became lord buddha. it was here 
that lord buddha entered into meditation after being moved by 
the sufferings of mankind. bodhgaya is often visited by the 
dalai lama and other lamas (buddhist religious heads). 
 (uttar pradesh), was the place where lord buddha, 
after attaining enlightenment, preached his first sermon to his 
five disciples. 
east    north  east  india
14 did you know? worlds first university was established in india, in takshashila in 700bc

vaishali 
kesariya
 
kushinagar
in addition to the above mentioned places in east india, other 
places of buddhist interest include:
lumbini
buddhist monasteries 
buddhist caves 
 
(bihar), the town where lord buddha preached his 
last sermon and announced his prospective mahaparinirvana  
to take place in kushinagar. vaishali is also believed to be the 
first republic of the world, having an elected body of 
representatives and an efficient administration as early as 6th 
century bc.
 (bihar), a small town, located in the city of 
champaran, where lord buddha spent the night before he
achieved mahaparinirwana, during his travel from vaishali to 
kushinagar. 
 (uttar pradesh), the place where lord buddha 
breathed his last words. today, kushinagar tops the list of 
buddhist pilgrimage sites in india.
 (nepal), the celebrated birthplace of lord buddha. 
:  scattered around india, especially 
in the himalayan ranges of ladakh, dharamsala, darjeeling and 
sikkim.
: udaigiri, ratnagiri and lalitgiri near 
bhubaneshwar in orissa ; ajanta and ellora caves in 
aurangabad; kanheri caves near mumbai. 
 buddhist monasteries, caves and monuments are also found in 
nepal, sri lanka and bhutan.

east    north  east  india
15www.traveliteindia.com

river cruises
assam bengal navigation :  assam  bengal
experience the hidden beauty and treasures of remote north eastern 
regions of assam and bengal.
cruising through river brahmaputra and hugli, experience elephant 
and jeep safaris in some of indias most treasured wildlife parks- 
manas, kaziranga and orang national park. 
cruising through the holy river ganges and hugli, you get an 
opportunity to see unique cattle fairs of eastern india, holy temples, 
remains of the british raj, and some historic buddhist sites
enjoy tribal encounters and village walks, interact with the locals, 
discover tea plantations, explore country towns on cycle rickshaws, 
relish barbecues on deserted river islands, enjoy folk dance 
performances, visit temples, shrines and local craft workshops. this is 
your chance to experience the real rural india... still far from any signs 
of modernity. 
for detailed itineraries, departure dates, and river boat   
specifications, log on to our website   www.traveliteindia.com
indian waterways
16 did you know? art of navigation was born in river sindhu, in india, more than 6,000 years ago.

beach havens of india
indias coastline is home to some of the finest beaches in the world. 
the golden sun kissed beaches can be enjoyed in the privacy of your 
own villa or by staying at luxurious five star resorts. you also have 
the option to cruise in style, whether on a private yacht or aboard a 
luxury liner in the vast indian oceans. 
goa
resorts and private villas in the country. with glistening sands, swaying 
coconut palms and fresh sea food, goa offers everything from sunny 
beaches, swimming, adventure sports, relaxing massages, and the 
finest spas in india. 
kerala, offers turquoise waters along the shores of arabian sea, ideal 
for a relaxing beach vacation. golden beaches dotted with coconut and 
palm groves, are peppered with ayurveda and spa resorts. sun bathing, 
swimming, ayurveda treatments, yoga and meditation, fishing with 
local fishermen are some popular beach activities at kerala. renowned 
beaches include kovalam, marari, kollam, bekal and varkala.
andaman and nicobar islands, covered with rain forests, are 
replete with serene beaches famed for their natural beauty. sandy 
beaches of these islands are famous for turtle nesting and exquisite 
marine life, making snorkelling and scuba diving an experience to 
remember. most islands are still uninhabited, some are inhabited by 
aboriginal tribes and some are now gearing up to welcome tourists!
lakshadweep islands, home to the only coral reef in india, 
provide crystal clear waters ideal for snorkelling, diving and wind 
surfing. the islands can be accessed via cruise or flight from kochi. 
with beach cottages set along the shores, lakshadweep offers green, 
clean and sandy beaches far from any signs of modern city life. 
shores of east india, are home to unique beaches, such as puri, 
the only indian beach flaunting amazing sand sculptures made by 
professional artists; pondicherry, the erstwhile coastal french hamlet 
of east india; mahabalipuram, famous for its shore temple and rich 
heritage 
, the beach capital of india, is home to the finest luxury hotels, 
indian waterways
17www.traveliteindia.com

west  south india
the western and southern region of india is a kaleidoscope of 
natural and cultural beauty ranging from the beach capital of goa, to 
the fast pace of mumbai, the modern face of bangalore, the lush 
green mountains of munnar and ooty, the palm lined backwaters of 
kumaramkom, temple trails of madurai, trichy, tanjore, exotic silks 
of kanchipuram, and heritage of hampi, belur and badami, west and 
south india offers all this and a lot more. 
west    south  india
gujarat to karnataka
ahmedabad,
mumbai
aurangabad
bangalore
hampi
hassan
mysore
ooty
hyderabad
 the largest city in gujarat, has earned the reputation of 
manchester of the east  for its booming textile industry. ahmedabad is 
famous for its mosques, step wells, gandhi ashram, textiles and textile 
museum. 
, home to bollywood and indias celluloid capital, is one of the 
fastest paced cities of modern india. mumbai reflects the face of 
cosmopolitan india and also treasures historical edifices such as the 
06th century cave temples on the nearby island of elephanta. 
, the ancient city famous for its fascinating rock cut cave 
temples of ellora, dating back to 05th century. aurangabad also 
treasures the horse shoe shaped buddhist caves of ajanta featuring 
intricate frescoes, paintings and sculptures dating back to 03rd 
century. the hidden secret of aurangabad is its mini taj mahal, called 
bibi ka maqbara. 
, the garden city of india, is known for its flourishing it 
industry. bangalore is blessed with pleasant weather throughout the 
year allowing it to maintain its green botanical gardens offering rich 
diversity of flora. the citys legislative chambers are a fine example of 
amalgamation of modern and traditional dravidian temple style 
architecture. 
, the last capital of hindu kingdom of vijayanagar, remains one 
of the most fascinating historical sites in south india and the most 
beautiful and evocative of all ruins in the state of karnataka. the 
dravidian temples and palaces at hampi date back to the 14th and 
16th centuries and some of the structural ruins still exemplify 
magnificent architectural marvels. 
, the gateway to heritage marvels of belur and halebidu. belur 
is famous for its magnificent hoysala temple complex with intricate 
sculptures. halebidu, the erstwhile capital of the hoysalas, is home to 
the hoysaleswara temple, a sculptural extravaganza perched on a star-
shaped base.
, the city renowned for its rich silks and sandalwood, is home 
to one of the newest and largest palaces of india, the maharajas palace, 
built in the late 19th century. near mysore is the chamundi hill temple, 
housing one of the largest statues of nandi bull. 
, a quaint hill resort of south india, popularly called the queen of 
nilgiri hills. ooty is famous for its rolling hills covered in pine and 
eucalyptus, sparkling waterfalls and its coffee and tea plantations.
, popularly known as the city of nizams, is the capital of 
the state of andhra pradesh. hyderabad offers an interesting blend of 
old and new  the old nawabi culture, architecture and minarets and 
the new modern high rise buildings and shopping centres. 

18 did you know? the digit zero was invented in india. 
gujarat
maharashtra
karnataka
andhra
pradesh
tamil 
nadu
kerala
ahmedabad
mumbai
aurangabad
surat
hampi
hassan
mysore
ooty
chennai
pondicherry
mahabalipuramkanchipuram
tanjore
madurai
hyderabad
kochi
periyar
munnar
kumarakom
kovalam
gadag
goa
panaji
kanyakumari
kannur
varkala
west  south india
bangalore

kerala : gods own country 
located along south western coast of india, kerala resembles a 
banana leaf clinging between the western ghats and beaches of 
arabian sea. 
kerala has been included in the top 50 tourist destinations for once 
in a life time visit by national geographic channel. the beauty of 
kerala lies in its placid nature encompassing serene backwaters, 
beaches, hill stations, spice plantations, flora and fauna, ayurveda, 
boat races, natural harbours and more. 
kochi
periyar
munnar
, the most cosmopolitan city of kerala, is also known as queen 
of the arabian sea. the distinctive architecture seen in dutch 
mansions, portuguese churches, jewish synagogue, british store 
houses and 14th century chinese fishing nets, reflects kochis long 
history as an important sea port and trading centre. kochi is renowned 
for its spectacular kathakali performance, one of the oldest theatre 
forms in india. performed by characters with vividly painted faces and 
elaborate costumes, kathakali is a spectacular combination of drama, 
dance, music and rituals, re-enacting stories from the hindu epics of 
mahabharata and ramayana.
, the hub of spice plantations in kerala, is also famous for its 
wildlife park which is best experienced aboard a boat cruise on lake 
periyar. the wildlife sanctuary is home to elephants, deer, wild boars, 
bears, flying squirrels, and a variety of bird and reptile species. the 
town is fragranced with the spicy aromas of pepper, cardamom, 
cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg. 
, a famous hill resort in east kerala, had long fascinated 
europeans and became the southern summer resort of british india. 
munnar valley was developed by scottish planters in the early 20th 
century. munnar is carpeted by thick forests and tea estates. the 
specialty of munnar is jungle honey, tea and a rare flower neela 
kurunji which blooms once in 12 years.

wayanad
backwaters
beaches
villages
, a quaint town in north kerala, is famous for its wildlife, 
ayurveda centres and plantation resorts. in close vicinity are schools of 
kalari, a popular martial art form of south india and the hill resort of 
lakkidi, offering options for trekking and visiting caves more than 
5000 years old. 
 of kerala encompass a complex network of lagoons, 
lakes,  canals, that are best experienced aboard traditional thatch-
roofed rice houseboat, known as kettuvallam. on display is life on the 
banks, lush green rice fields, and coconut groves with an occasional 
temple or church as you cruise through the backwaters. the 
houseboats come along with a chef on board, preparing authentic 
kerala cuisine. the serene backwaters around kumarakom and 
alleppey can also be enjoyed in the privacy of a deluxe villa, luxury 
hotel or resort with canals running through the property!
 of kerala, along the shores of arabian sea, are ideal for a 
relaxing vacation. golden beaches dotted with coconut and palm 
groves, are peppered with ayurveda and spa resorts. sun bathing, 
swimming, ayurveda treatments, yoga and meditation, fishing with 
local fishermen are some popular beach activities at kerala. renowned 
beaches include kovalam, marari, kollam, bekal and varkala.
 along the coast of kerala offer an insight into the local 
lifestyle, crafts, traditions and cultures of the region. popular coastal 
villages of kerala include beypore, a quaint village known for centuries 
as the shipbuilding centre of south india, is famous for its country boats 
called uru; mahe, an erstwhile french settlement in kerala; kannur, a 
coastal town known for its pristine beaches and handloom industry, is 
also renowned for its old hookah factory. 
west    south  india
19www.traveliteindia.com

temple trails of tamil nadu 
the south eastern state of tamil nadu is home to magnificent temple 
complexes and serene beaches with character. rich in heritage and 
cultural beauty, this region of india specialises in rock cut 
sculptures, intricate stone work and rich woven silks. 
chennai
pondicherry
mahabalipuram
kanchipuram
trichy
tanjore
, a city that grew from a small fishermens village, was an 
ancient hub of portuguese traders in india. home to the first british 
church in the country, chennai also houses fort st george, the first 
original outpost of british east india company, established in the 17th 
century. 
, the french riviera of south east india, is a former 
french colony which still retains its distinctive charm. pondicherry is 
also popular for one the largest aashrams in india, auroville, a unique 
experiment in human unity and international living.
, a 7th century unesco world heritage site, is 
famous for its magnificent shore temple, with an unusual statue of 
sleeping lord vishnu. mahabalipuram is also popular for its monolithic 
rock sculptures with intricately carved animals and scenes from the 
hindu epic, mahabharata. 
, one of the seven holiest hindu cities in india, is 
famous for its numerous temples and hand woven silks. kanchipuram 
silks are exotic pieces of art, often decorated with fine gold and silver 
threads (zari). 
, a bustling temple city, thriving with priests and elephants 
granting blessings to devotees, is famous for its magnificent rock fort 
and beautifully carved temples. 
, a quiet town, set along the banks of river cauvery, is 
renowned for its 10th century brihadeshwara temple, a magnificent 
structure carved out of granite, displaying intricate carvings and 
beautiful frescoes on its surrounding walls. 
madurai, a famous temple citiy of south india, is home to the splendid 
meenakshi temple. being one of the most visited temples in the region, 
meenakshi temple is always bustling with devotees. 
suggested itineraries
mumbai to kerala tour
jewels of south india 
deccan delights 
temples of south india 
kerala - gods own country 
 
emerald waters of india 
l  
l
l
l
l
l
: mumbai - bangalore - hassan - mysore - 
ooty  - calicut - kochi - periyar - kumarakom - kovalam - 
trivandrum
: bangalore - hassan - mysore - ooty - kochi  
-alleppey / kumarakom - periyar - madurai - trichy / tanjore-  
pondicherry - mahabalipuram - kanchipuram / chennai
: hyderabad - gulbarga - bijapur - badami - hampi  
goa
: chennai - mahabalipuram - pondicherry - 
tanjore - madurai - kanyakumari - trivandrum
: kochi - munnar - periyar - kumarakom 
- houseboat -  kovalam
: mumbai - goa - kochi - kumarakom  
- kovalam 
west    south  india
20 did you know? india discovered ayurveda, the earliest school of medicine known to humans.

luxury in south india
luxurious city stays
 taj mahal, mumbai  the oberoi, mumbai  the leela, mumbai  four 
seasons, mumbai  leela palace, bangalore  vivanta by taj malabar, 
kochi  taj falaknuma palace, hyderabad
luxury beach  backwater resorts
 park hyatt, goa  the leela, goa  grand hyatt, goa  vivanta by taj 
holiday village, goa  kumarakom lake resort, kumarakom 
 niraamaya surya samudra, kovalam  the leela kovalam  oberoi 
m.v. vrinda, houseboat in alleppey
west    south  india
21www.traveliteindia.com

wellness in india 
ayurveda
medical tourism 
india is home to a wonderful selection of yoga and meditation 
retreats, ayurveda centres and spa resorts. these are scattered all 
over the country - in the hills, amidst spice plantations, along the 
backwaters, on the beach, in palace hotels, in desert camps, and in 
modern cities. varying in style, comfort and price, the choice is only 
limited by your imagination! 
india is also the budding hub for medical tourism. with quality 
hospitals, qualified doctors, impeccable service and no waiting time, 
the country is gradually becoming the first choice for patients 
requiring specialist surgeries and medical procedures. 
ayurveda, the oldest form of healthcare in the world, has been 
practiced in india for thousands of years. ayurveda means knowledge 
of life. india offers holistic ayurvedic therapies, based on physical 
treatment and philosophical and psychological healing. ayurveda 
views ailments as a result of combination of factors along with specific 
components of diet, and customises treatments for patients. ayurvedic 
principles are found in detail in atharva veda, one of the four ancient 
vedas (holy scriptures) of hinduism.
ayurvedic treatments are divided into eight branches  kaya chikilsa 
(general medicine)  shalya (surgery)  shalakya (ent and 
ophthalmology)  graha (psychotherapy)  damshitra (toxicology) 
bala (pediatrics and gynaecology)  jara (rejuvenation)  vrishya 
(aphrodisiacs)
travelite (india) offers customised ayurveda packages and courses at 
popular centres in india. 
medical tourism includes the provision of cost effective private 
medical care for patients needing surgical and other forms of 
specialised treatments. medical or health tourism has become a 
popular form of vacationing, and combines leisure and relaxation with 
wellness and healthcare. 
to meet the growing demand for medical tourism, travelite (india) has 
aligned itself with leading international standard hospitals in india and 
specialist panel of doctors to provide necessary information and 
services on various medical treatments to patients. our role is to 
provide access to a panel of reputed specialists to help the patient 
identify a suitable hospital and doctor providing the appropriate 
treatment for his / her ailment.
india offers expertise in a range of surgical and elective procedures, 
popular ones being: 
  hip resurfacing  hip replacement  knee 
replacement  spinal cord surgery  coronary artery bypass grafting 
(c.a.b.g.)  coronary balloon angioplasty  stent implantation
angiography  cardiac valve replacement  gastric bypass  gastric 
banding  plastic surgery
  eye care including treatments for cataract, 
glaucoma, treatment for retinal diseases and laser surgeries  ent 
treatments for disorders related to diseases, injuries, or deformations 
of the ears, nose, throat  dental care including implants, crowns, 
bridges, dentures, root canal treatments and aesthetic beauty 
treatments   cosmetic treatments
surgical procedures
 
elective procedures
22 did you know? yoga originated in india and has been practiced by indians for over 5,000 years.
wellness  in  india
yoga  meditation 
the birthplace of yoga and meditation, india is an ideal destination for 
rejuvenation of mind, body and soul. offering techniques for self 
realization and purification, yoga and meditation present a complete 
spiritual experience. a discipline of exercises for physical and mental 
well being, yoga combines stylised postures with deep breathing and 
meditation to achieve a calm and focussed body and mind. 
travelite (india) offers customised yoga and meditation packages and 
courses at popular retreats in india.

23www.traveliteindia.com
relaxing spas
popular retreats
if you wish to get away from the hustle and bustle of city life, and relax 
in the serenity of india, we offer you some hand picked destinations, 
with renowned relaxing spas to de-stress and calm your senses. 
ranging from north to south india, spectacular spa resorts can be 
found all across the country. from hidden hamlets in the himalayas to 
sandy goan beaches, backwaters of kerala, outskirts of metropolitan 
cities, there is a relaxing haven near you, wherever you are in india!
 ananda in the himalayas, rishikesh 
 niraamaya surya samudra, kovalam  the leela, kovalam 
 carnaustie ayurveda  wellness resort, marari  somatheeram  
manaltheeram beach resort, kovalam  travancore heritage, kovalam 
 cgh kalari kovilakom, palakkad  cgh kalari rasayana, kollam 
 neeleshwar hermitage, neeleshwar  cgh swaswara, gokarna 
 soukya, bangalore  kumarakom lake resort, kumarakom  cgh 
coconut lagoon, kumarakom  cgh marari beach resort, marari    
 dr franklin panchkarma institute, kovalam  bethsaida hermitage, 
kovalam
: ranked amongst the best spas of the world, oberoi spas 
provide a serene and truly unforgettable experience of pure pampering 
and relaxation in exquisitely beautiful surroundings, using holistic 
therapies and massages which combine the very best of eastern and 
western practices.
 vanyavilas, ranthambore  udaivilas, udaipur  amarvilas, agra 
 rajvilas, jaipur  wildflower hall in the himalayas, shimla  the 
oberoi, new delhi  oberoi gurgaon
ayurveda  yoga retreats
oberoi spas 
taj spas 
other popular spas:
: a seamless blend of old-world charm and new-age luxuries, 
taj spas promise the finest and most unique leisure experiences. taj 
spas offer a spectrum of authentic and traditional indian wellness 
treatments and experiences in a stylish and soothing ambience. 
 taj rambagh palace, jaipur  taj jai mahal palace, jaipur  taj umaid 
bhawan palace, jodhpur  taj lake palace, udaipur  taj exotica, goa 
 taj   falaknuma   palace, hyderabad
  sereno spa, park hyatt goa  espa at the leela,  
delhi    bangalore  devigarh resort, udaipur  kaya kalp - itc 
mughal, agra  the imperial spa, delhi  the zuri resort  spa, 
kumarakom
wellness  in  india

luxury  train  journeys 
24 did you know? games like chess  and snakes and ladders  were invented in india.   
maharajas express
indian splendour 
heritage of india
treasures of india
gems of india 
the indian panaroma
a train that never falls short of promising you a royal experience, the 
maharajas express features five carriages for deluxe cabins, six for 
junior suites, two for suites and one for grand presidential suite. every 
cabin has large panoramic windows, individual temperature controls, 
lcd televisions, dvd players, direct dial telephone, internet and an 
electronic safe deposit box. the maharajas express features two fine 
dining restaurants, an exotic safari bar and a raja club lounge. 
the train offers a variety of journeys through different regions of india 
across varying durations. each journey has fixed departure dates. 
(7 nights) : delhi - agra - ranthambore - jaipur - 
bikaner - jodhpur - udaipur - balasinor  mumbai
 (7 nights): mumbai - ajanta - udaipur - jodhpur - 
bikaner - jaipur - ranthambore - agra  delhi
 (3 nights): delhi - agra - ranthambore - jaipur 
 delhi
(3 nights): delhi - agra - ranthambore - jaipur  delhi
 (7 nights): delhi  jaipur  ranthambore 
 fatehpur sikri - agra - gwalior  orchha - khajuraho - varanasi - 
lucknow  delhi
luxury  train  journeys
the opulence, splendour, lavish lifestyle and cultural heritage of the 
princely states of india is reflected not only in the forts, palaces and 
havelis of the country but also in indias luxury trains and royal 
carriages. touring india aboard a luxury train, makes travel between 
destinations as much of an experience as the destinations 
themselves!
luxury train tours provide guests an experience of a life time, 
exploring palaces, forts, museums, temples, wildlife parks, mixing 
with people of the land during the day and resting in royal luxurious 
saloons of the train at night. step aboard and explore india like 
royalty!
palace on wheels
tour route
tour duration
departure days
operates from
roll back the pages of time for one glorious week, re-capture the pomp 
and luxury of history in royal grandeur. step aboard the palace on 
wheels, once the personal railway coaches of erstwhile rulers of the 
princely states of gujarat and rajputana, the viceroy of british india 
and the nizam of hyderabad. 
rated amongst the 10 best luxury rail journeys in the world, the 
exquisite and exclusive palace on wheels  features 14 fully air-
conditioned deluxe saloons with 4 chambers each, wall to wall 
carpeting, a well stocked bar and 2 dining cars. 
 : new delhi - jaipur - sawai madhopur - 
chittaurgarh - udaipur - jaisalmer - jodhpur - 
bharatpur - agra  delhi
: 7 nights / 8 days
: every wednesday
: september to april


25www.traveliteindia.com
golden chariot
tour route
tour duration
departure days
operates from
golden chariot inherits its name from the stone chariot in hampi. 
taking you on an enchanting and mesmerising journey through 
karnataka, the golden chariot complements the rich culture of the 
state of karnataka, and is a marvel in itself. the coach chambers of the 
train are steeped in history, under a sky of intricate craftsmanship that 
narrates timeless tales. a journey on board the golden chariot will give 
you a chance to experience the luxurious lifestyle of erstwhile 
maharajas, seeing history and heritage unfold itself!
the golden chariot features 26 twin bed cabins, 17 double bed cabins 
and 1 cabin for physically challenged. there are 2 lavish restaurant 
cars, a well stocked lounge/bar car, an ayurvedic massage centre and a 
gymnasium.
: pride of the south: bangalore - kabini - 
srirangapatnam - mysore - shravanabelagola - 
belur - halebid - hampi - badami - pattadakal  
goa  bangalore
southern splendour: bangalore - chennai - 
pondicherry - tanjavur - madurai - 
thiruvananthpuram - alleppey - kochi  
bangalore
: 7 nights / 8 days
: fixed departure dates
: september to april 
deccan  odyssey 
tour route
tour duration
departure days
operates from
the deccan odyssey flaunts tourism jewels of the state of 
maharashtra, including the heritage, ancient caves, local arts, crafts 
and cuisine of the state. the week long deccan odyssey tour includes 
exotic destinations covering the vast expanse of maharashtra and a 
pinch of goa. 
the deccan odyssey has 21 coaches, of which 11 are passenger cars 
with 4 coupes each. there are 2 presidential suite cars with 2 coupes 
in each. the train also has a conference car (can be redesigned as dance 
floor at night) and 2 restaurant cars. there is also a lounge/bar car and 
a spa car. 
: mumbai - sindhudurg - tarkarli - goa - kolhapur - 
daulatabad - tadoba - ajanta - nashik  mumbai
: 7 nights / 8 days
: fixed departure dates
: september to april 
royal rajasthan on wheels
tour route
tour duration
departure days
operates from
the royal rajasthan on wheels was conceived to rekindle heritage and 
luxury with modern amenities. the train is designed in contemporary 
royal style, featuring exquisite silk and velvet bedspreads and 
draperies, and finely carved wooden furniture in the super-deluxe 
suite. this luxury train is a regal delight, where every moment is woven 
together into an everlasting experience. 
royal rajasthan on wheels features 13 deluxe coaches named after 
the famous palaces of rajasthan and the super deluxe coach called   
taj mahal. there are 2 lavish and well stocked restro-bars, a business 
centre, board room and fitness centre.
: new delhi  jodhpur  udaipur  chittaurgarh 
 sawai madhopur  jaipur  khajuraho  
varanasi  agra  new delhi
: 7 nights / 8 days
: every sunday
: september to april
luxury  train  journeys

wildlife  encounters
with its incredibly diverse climate, terrain and vegetation, india is 
home to a variety of wildlife, bird-life, flora and fauna. there are a 
number of protected areas and wildlife parks in india, offering first 
hand encounters with the royal indian tiger, the majestic elephants, 
leopards, one horned rhinos and other wildlife. 
ranthambore
bharatpur
sariska
kanha
, acclaimed as one of the best places in the world to 
photograph tigers in the wild. situated in rajasthan, near the outer 
fringes of the thar desert, ranthambore is surrounded by vindhya and 
aravalli ranges. popular wildlife to be seen at the national park 
includes sambar, chital, blue bull, chinkara, langur, wild boar, sloth 
bear, jackal, tigers and leopards, and crocodiles around the lake. 
, a world heritage site, famous for keoladeo ghana 
national park, is located on the eastern edge of rajasthan. a marshy 
area, stretching over 29 sq km of forests, grasslands and shallow lakes, 
the park offers over 350 species of birds, native and migratory. 
bharatpur is the siberian cranes only known wintering ground in 
india. 
, sprawling across 800 sq km of aravalli ranges, is easily 
accessible by road from delhi or jaipur. the erstwhile hunting resort of 
the royal family of alwar, sariska national park is home to leopard, 
jungle cat, hyena, jackal, sambar, nilgai, wild boar and tiger. 
, in the central indian state of madhya pradesh, is spread over 
1,945 sq. km of dense sal forests, interspersed with extensive 
meadows, trees and clumps of wild bamboo. kanha national park is 
best known as the natural habitat of the tiger and as home to mowgli in 
rudyard kiplings famous jungle book . 
bandhavgarh
pench
panna
, renowned for its fabulous white tigers, is also home 
to a variety of species of mammals and birds. the national park, in the 
heart of madhya pradesh, has a number of domesticated elephants, 
allowing you to enjoy elephant safaris on your tiger hunt. bandhavgarh 
wildlife park is set in the vindhya mountain range with the highest 
known density of tiger population in india.
, one of central indias lesser known reserves, is a small national 
park, dominated by hills, forests and valleys. the park derives its name 
from river pench, which runs from north to south, dividing the park 
into almost equal halves. a typical central indian teak jungle, pench 
supports a rich variety of wildlife, including tiger, leopard, gaur, 
sambar, chital and brilliant birdlife. 
, situated in the vindhya ranges, along the banks of the river 
ken, is a mere 30 km from the world famous temples at khajuraho. 
with its deep ravines, cascading waterfalls and thick teak forests, 
panna national park is predominantly a plateau, with sprawling 
flatlands punctuated by hills, deep valleys and gorges. the reserve is 
renowned for sightings of nilgai, sambar, chital, wild boar, crocodile, 
leopard, wolf, hyena, jackal, sloth bear and sometimes even tigers. 
wildlife  encounters 
26 did you know? the value of pi was first calculated in india in the 6th century.

corbett
periyar
sunderbans
kaziranga
, indias first national park, set up in 1936, is located in the 
foothills of western himalayas. the park was created with the help and 
advice of the great hunter and conservationist, jim corbett. enjoy jeep 
and elephant safaris here, seeing sambar, deer, antelope, wild 
elephants, crocodiles, a variety of birds and maybe even tigers. 
, is set within the ranges of western ghats in the south indian 
state of kerala. enjoy exploring the wildlife reserve aboard a boat 
cruise on lake periyar, spotting local wildlife including gaurs, sambars, 
deer, and elephants along the banks.  
, a unesco world heritage site, treasures dense 
mangrove forests, winding rivers, narrow creeks, remote villages and 
tribal settlements. part of the worlds largest delta formed by river 
ganges and brahmaputra, sunderbans is home to a variety of wildlife 
including wild crocodiles, spotted deer, and the majestic royal bengal 
tiger. 
, is situated in the north eastern state of assam, along the 
banks of the mighty brahmaputra river. kaziranga national park is the 
natural habitat to one of the most endangered species in the world, the 
one horned rhino. enjoy elephant safaris in this remote national park, 
sighting a variety of birdlife and wildlife along with freely roaming one 
horned rhinos. 
wildlife  encounters 
manas
gir
, is situated along the foothills of himalayas, in the north 
eastern state of assam. manas national park is a stunning pristine 
wildlife habitat, with spectacular landscapes. a world heritage site, 
manas national park is a tiger, elephant and biosphere reserve. named 
after river manas, this national park is renowned for rare and 
endangered assam roofed turtle, hispid hare, golden langur and 
pygmy hog.
, situated in the western state of gujarat, is the last abode of the 
asiatic lions in india. gir national park is also home to other wildlife 
such as leopards, sambars, deers and marsh crocodiles. the park is also 
a paradise for bird watchers with frequent sightings of changeable 
hawk eagle, crested serpent eagle, bonnelis eagle, peregrine falcon, 
black-hooded and golden oriels, and marshalls
 
 taj mahua kothi, bandhavgarh national park  taj baghvan, pench 
national park  taj pashan garh, panna national park  taj banjaar 
tola, kanha national park  oberoi vanyavilas, ranthambore national 
park  aman-i-khas, ranthambore national park
luxury wildlife retreats
27www.traveliteindia.com

special  interest  tours
golf : tee off in india
india was the first country outside great 
britain to take up the game of golf. golf 
had already been played in india for more 
than half a century, before the first major 
course was opened in usa and europe! 
tee off in india and enjoy the diversity of 
its golf courses. not only does india have 
the oldest golf club in the world (outside 
great britain), the royal calcutta golf club 
established in 1829, but also the highest, 
at gulmarg (altitude 2,700 metres) in 
kashmir. there are golf courses in the 
mountains, plains, deserts and at beach 
resorts. each course is unique in its 
culture and history, highlighting all that 
makes india a diverse destination. 
golf courses in india are located in 
strategic cities and have convenient 
domestic and international air 
connections along with world class 
accommodation.
allow us to arrange customized golf tour 
packages for you. let us take care of all 
your travel arrangements so you can have 
a hassle free tour and enjoy the game. 
festival celebrations
india, the land of colour and celebrations, 
is a rich country exuberating festivities 
365 days a year! 
the large population, geographic and 
cultural variety, and the number of 
religions practiced by the people of india, 
makes every day an occasion and a reason 
to celebrate. where ever you are in india, 
you will never be far from festivities!
we have hand picked a selection of 
popular indian festivals from different 
parts of the country that are sure to 
impress tourists. not only are these 
festivals entertaining, they are also 
educative, allowing you to learn more 
about our country, its people and their 
customs and beliefs.  
contact us for suggestions on most 
suitable festival to attend in the most 
convenient place at the most appropriate 
time. 
all our festival tour suggestions are 
custom designed to suit particular 
interests and requirements.   
gourmet tours
the finest of indias cuisines are as rich 
and diverse as the countrys civilization! 
indian cooking is a form of art that has 
flourished through generations. 
renowned for its exotic gravies, indian 
food is wide ranging in variety, taste and 
flavour. given the geographic diversity of 
the country, each region has its own 
cuisine and distinct style of preparation. 
ranging from the tandoori grills, 
chapattis, cottage cheese and milky 
sweets of north india; to the spicy veggies, 
pickles and chutneys of rajasthan and 
gujarat; the portuguese influenced goan 
specialities; the rice, dosa and coconut 
flavoured sea food of south india; to the 
simple delicacies and extravagant sweets 
of east india - indian food is a potpourri of 
flavours and aromas. 
we organise gourmet tours to india 
covering the length and breadth of the 
country in a platter full of variety. to 
enhance the experience, our trademark 
gourmet tours have been designed to 
include cooking demonstrations, tte -
-tte with renowned chefs, meals at 
speciality restaurants, visits to local food 
markets, local family hosted dinners and 
where possible a visit to spice plantations.
special  interest  tours
india offers a variety of special interest tours, to suit the 
requirements and unique interests of discerning travellers.  
travelite (india) organises a selection of tours, covering a range of 
such special interests. our focus remains on making the tour 
tangible, so you can touch, feel and experience the real sights, 
flavours and marvels of your tour, making it a memorable 
experience. each tour is accompanied by professional experts, hand 
picked by us for their experience and knowledge of the subject.  
28 did you know? plastic surgery and brain surgery were performed in india more than 2,600 years ago.

architectural marvels
being one of the oldest civilizations on 
earth, india is an architectural 
wonderland. indias architecture reflects a 
fusion of various cultures and religions 
amalgamated with waves of time. 
the architectural wonders of india  
include himalayan crown : ladakhi 
architecture, arising from basic survival 
needs in the himalayan weather; buddhist 
monasteries with tibetan influences; 
north india : majestic forts and palaces of 
rajasthan; farming centric architectural 
style of punjab; british influence in the 
grand parliament structures of new delhi; 
amalgamation of hindu and muslim 
architectural styles of old delhi; world 
famous architectural masterpiece of taj 
mahal in agra ; central india : rock cut 
caves of ajanta and ellora; great buddhist 
stupa at sanchi; temples and shrines of 
orchha and ujjain; erotic sculptured 
khajuraho temples; west india : victorian 
influence in the famous landmarks of 
central mumbai ; influences of the indus 
valley civilization in the architecture     
and fascinating step wells of gujarat ;   
east india : remains of british architecture 
in kolkata and darjeeling  ; east  
himalayan architecture with tibetan 
influence in himalayan foothills of sikkim; 
south india : exquisite temples of 
hoysalas and chalukyas ; fascinating 
ruins of hampi; maharajas palace of 
mysore; colourful temples of madurai; 
rock cut extravagance of  mahabalipuram; 
backwaters architecture of kerala; galaxy 
architecture of auroville 
textile tours
indian textiles are rich in variety, owing to 
great diversity in the cultural set-up of 
indian society. the textiles produced in 
different regions of india are unique and 
epitomize historical traditions and 
artistry.
indian textile marvels range from 
pashmina, the soft and luxurious wool, 
reflecting the meticulous craftsmanship 
of kashmir ; phulkari, the colourful floral 
embroidery, originating from punjab; 
bandhani , a unique fashion from 
rajasthan and gujarat, featuring rainbow-
tinged fabrics often used as turbans by 
men and skirts and scarves by women of 
the region ; block printing, the ancient 
trait of rajasthan ; ikat, the age-old art of 
weaving in patan; khadi, the indian 
handspun and hand-woven fabric 
endorsed by mahatma gandhi; kantha 
work, the local bengali tradition of 
embroidery; banarasi brocade, the rich 
woven silks of varanasi; kanchipuram 
silk, a speciality of kanchipuram, valued 
for its gold and silver threads ; muga silk, 
of assam used in manufacturing warm 
winter clothes, and the list could go on 
forever!
we take you behind the scenes to show 
you how exotic masterpieces of indian 
textiles are woven and designed to 
precision. meet artisans and weavers 
perfecting their generations old trade, see 
ancient handlooms in real life, appreciate 
the natural processes used for dying and 
printing, see the wooden blocks creating a 
medley of designs on fabric, and try your 
hand at making your own piece of silk!
gems  jewel trails
desire for precious jewels, stones and 
metals is not new to indian men and 
women. excavations at the site of indus 
valley civilization, dating back to 3rd 
century unearthed several examples of 
jewellery fashioned with skill. today, that 
historic passion has transformed into a 
modern and thriving industry, marked 
with quality, precision and perfection. 
gold, the yellow majestic shiny metal, has 
been at the centre stage of indias rich 
legends. gold hubs in india are centred 
around southern states of karnataka, 
andhra pradesh and tamilnadu. silver 
ornaments popular in rural india and 
tribal societies, form a large chunk of 
jewellery exports from india. the states of 
rajasthan, andhra pradesh, and 
karnataka are famous for their finely 
crafted silver jewellery. diamonds are 
found in abundance in gujarat, as majority 
of the worlds diamonds are flown into 
gujarat to be cut and polished for that 
sparkling lusture. pearls, associated with

found in abundance in gujarat, as majority 
of the worlds diamonds are flown into 
gujarat to be cut and polished for that 
sparkling lusture. pearls, associated with 
wealth, purity and dignity, are found in 
abundance in hyderabad in andhra 
pradesh, which is the largest centre for 
pearl trading in the world! ivory engraving 
and carving is a medium of artistic 
expression in india from times 
immemorial. ivory  inlaid furniture, 
miniature paintings, centre pieces, 
decorative plaques, and carved elephant 
figures are few popular ivory products 
sought from india.
special  interest  tours
29www.traveliteindia.com

adventure  in  india 
crowned by the himalayan ranges in the north and surrounded by 
stretches of emerald oceans in the south, india provides a range of 
adventure tour options. 
from trekking in the snow capped himalayan ranges, to river rafting 
in the gushing fresh water rivers, camping in varied terrains, 
experiencing close wildlife encounters on jungle safaris, snorkelling 
in the exotic oceans, india offers ample choice for adventure 
enthusiasts. 
angling
white water rafting
scuba diving and snorkelling
cycling
walking
 in the majestic himalayan valleys, snow-fed streams, high 
altitude lakes, innumerable rivers along the ganges plains, and wide 
coastal stretches of the arabian sea and bay of bengal 
 in the rivers of ladakh, down the himalayan 
ranges along river ganges and its tributaries in shivpuri and rishikesh
 in goa, lakshadweep, and 
andaman and nicobar islands, watching the beautiful underwater 
marine life and virgin coral reefs. 
 in the mountainous trails of himalayan ranges, along the 
serene backwaters and villages of kerala, down the coastal belt of goa, 
in the golden triangle discovering the heritage of jaipur and agra, and 
through rustic rajasthani villages. 
 through himalayan villages, rural rajasthani hamlets, 
keralan spice plantations, the french town of pondicherry, the 
portuguese interior of goa
adventure  in  india
30 did you know? algebra, trigonometry and calculus were first formulated in india.

camping
trekking 
skiing and heli skiing
wildlife safaris
desert safaris
mountaineering 
horse riding
canoeing
farming
 in varied terrains ranging from the high himalayan altitude, 
to the sand dunes of rajasthan and the jungles of sunderbans 
in north and north east himalayas ranging from ladakh and 
zanskar ranges, to the mountains of shimla and manali, garhwal and 
kumaon, and the north east region of sikkim and darjeeling
 along the himalayan glaciers and slopes of 
auli, gulmarg, pithoragarh, solang valley, shimla, manali, nainital
 on jeeps, canters and elephant backs in numerous 
national wildlife parks spread across india
 on jeeps and camel backs through the sand dunes 
and rustic villages of rajasthan
in the himalayan stretches from north to north-
east of india along the regions of ladakh, garhwal, kumaon, kullu 
valley, spiti, and sikkim.
 in rural villages of rajasthan and green meadows of 
himalayan ranges
 in country boats along the backwater canals and ethnic 
villages of kerala
 along with local farmers in the fertile plains of punjab or 
paddy fields of kerala
adventure  in  india
31www.traveliteindia.com

m.i.c.e
our m.i.c.e team has a host of ideas to offer when it comes to your 
meetings, incentives, conferences or events in the indian 
subcontinent. we ensure your event is handled professionally by an 
expert member of our m.i.c.e team, who remains accessible and 
accountable to you at all times. 
incentive tours :
meetings  conferences :
 we create customized incentive solutions for your 
clients to suit their requirements and preferences. when we start 
working on your incentive request we will discuss in detail about the 
nature of event, profile of client, expectation from the destination and 
experience, duration of tour, pace of tour etc to suggest an incentive 
tour that is most appropriate to meet your clients request.  
 from initial stages of venue search through 
to post event evaluation we adopt a comprehensive approach to ensure 
all aspects of the event are concurrently reviewed and assessed. we 
understand and appreciate the inherent differences between different 
types of meetings and conferences such as a sales kick off meeting, a 
pharma training, a financial forecast meeting or a bankers conference 
 each conference is approached with an industry specific perspective 
to ensure we deliver on expectations. 
our first step i.e. understanding your precise requirement guides us 
all the way to a successful finale. this understanding navigates every 
important step including: 
 recommending  contracting of ideal event venue  recommending 
 contracting for accommodation  theme  logo development 
 promotional marketing campaign  registration services  event 
management services  efficient administrators  secretarial staff for 
back-room management  audio visual requirements  set design and 
production style  multilingual real time translation requirements 
 emergency medical services  fully networked computerized 
operations  organizing pre  post tours  organizing spouse 
programmes and arrangements for accompanying guests  travel and 
transport arrangements  airport facilitation services  organizing 
gifts, certificates, trophies for the event
themes
to keep your guests amused and entertained, a variety of theme events 
can be organized in india. contact us for details and more ideas. 
: an evening of royal splendour that takes 
you back in time to the golden era of the mughal dynasty, can be 
arranged at a 5 hotel or in an outdoor setting. 
: recreating the splendour of an 
indian village, an outdoor venue in a garden setting is set up to look like 
a mock village, with artisans showcasing their skills, arts and crafts 
 : a palace hotel 
decorated and illuminated for the evening, where guests arrive in 
camel carts, recreating the magic of the lifestyle of erstwhile 
maharajas of india.
: enjoy a royal nomadic 
experience, on a camel safari in the 
desert and nearby villages, 
followed by dinner and dance at a 
desert camp, an experience very 
unique to rajasthan. 
: cruise through the 
backwaters of kerala aboard a 
beautifully decorated house boat, 
enjoying keralan cuisine on board and 
splendid fireworks on the shores. 
royal mughal theme 
ethnic indian village theme 
indian durbar evening at a palace hotel
camel safari and sand dune 
evening 
tranquil backwaters of 
kerala 
m.i.c.e
32 did you know? place value system and decimal system were developed in india.

33www.traveliteindia.com
activities
if your guests would like some action, and prefer to get out and 
experience the real india, allow us to provide them an experience of a 
lifetime! read on for a few interesting activities that can be arranged in 
india. contact us for details and more ideas. 
: ride on elephant backs and play the sport 
of erstwhile maharajas of rajasthan, the royal game of elephant polo! 
: enjoy a sunrise hot air 
balloon flight and village safaris, at various locations in rajasthan such 
as jaipur, pushkar, ranthambore. 
: experience a stay at a 
fine desert camp of rajasthan, along with camel safaris to nearby 
villages. to make the experience more rustic, we can put up our own 
tents in the middle of nowhere!
elephant polo match 
hot air balloon flight  village safari 
go camping in the deserts of rajasthan 
enjoy a wildlife safari 
village walks in the himalayas 
learn to cook a typical indian meal 
watch the spectacular performance mohabbat-the-taj
: visit the wildlife parks in india, where you 
can enjoy first hand encounter with the royal indian tiger, the majestic 
elephants, leopards, one horned rhinos and other wildlife. 
: one of the most fascinating 
and unique ways to discover the hidden beauty of himalayas is through 
village walks amidst the serenity of the mighty himalayas. 
: the finest of indias 
cuisines are as rich and diverse as the countrys civilization! step inside 
an indian kitchen and learn the age old art of indian culinary delights. 
: 
witness the indian heritage come alive, with a fascinating theatre 
performance mohabbat-the-taj : the saga of love , the only show of its 
kind in india! 

m.i.c.e

private  charters
private  charters
save your precious time, 
                    avoid commercial terminals, 
                                       make your own itinerary  
                                                 select your own landing destination...
discover the convenience of flying in helicopters and private aircrafts. we understand that truly luxurious travel is carefree travel, 
with a sense of ease and plenty of pampering. 
with private planes and helicopters you can have access to airfields in more than 400 cities and towns of india as compared to less 
than 200 that can be reached by regular commercial airlines. the helicopters we arrange have the ability to land almost anywhere, so 
you get unmatched connectivity to every corner of the country.
travelite (india) has aligned itself with reputed international companies, offering top of the range aircrafts and helicopters to provide 
you ultimate luxury in the indian sub continent. 
discover the quickest and the most luxurious way to explore our incredible india!
34 did you know? in 5,000 bc, indians used numbers as large as 1053 (10 to the power of 53).

weddings  in india
indian weddings are known for their grandeur and magnificence. with 
opulent celebrations, lasting over several days, the extravagance 
ranges from elephant processions, flower showers by helicopters, 
grand splendid marquees and decor, elaborate fireworks, fire dances, 
and performances by bollywood celebrities!
india offers a range of options for theme weddings, such as: 
exotic beach weddings in goa and kovalam
in lavish palaces, forts and heritage havelis of rajasthan
in desert camps amidst the sand dunes of rajasthan
along the backwaters of kerala
in the snow capped himalayan ranges
a jungle wedding at a wildlife resort
cosmopolitan city celebrations
a portuguese church wedding
we work with professional wedding planners to provide you with 
complete services ranging from  selection of venue  decoration of 
venue  arranging the wedding ceremony of your choice  registration 
requirements  wedding day management  elaborate buffet and 
champagne dinner  exclusive accommodation for bride and groom 
and accompanying guests  transport arrangements  professional 
photographers  hair and make up  wedding dress for bride and 
groom  wedding cake  luxury spa treatment for bride and groom 
 honeymoon arrangements and everything to make your indian 
wedding a memorable experience to be cherished forever!
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
weddings  in  india
35www.traveliteindia.com

kingdom  of  nepal 
the kingdom of nepal is an extravaganza of culture, heritage and 
natural himalayan beauty. despite being a small country, nepal 
offers a variety of experiences such as trekking in the hilly terrains 
of himalayan ranges, walking around villages and small towns and 
mixing with the tribes of the region, boating in serene lakes, visiting 
hindu and buddhist temples, experiencing an elephant back safari 
and enjoying scenic flights over mount everest. 
kathmandu
nagarkot
chitwan national park
pokhara
l  
l
l
l  
, the capital city of nepal, is set in an exotic valley, with 
ancient buddhist stupas and temples amidst stunning natural beauty. 
the city is renowned for the impressive palaces and temples of darbar 
square, more than 2500 years old swayambhunath stupa, the hindu 
temple of pashupatinath, the intriguing eyes of boudhanath stupa and 
the potters, weavers and crafts of bhaktapur. 
, located towards the north east of kathmandu, is famous 
for its panoramic views of the snowy himalayan peaks. situated approx 
2200 meters above sea level, nagarkot offers stunning sunrise and 
sunset views of the himalayas, including a distant pyramid of mount 
everest on a clear day. 
, set in the subtropical southern region of 
nepal, is home to a variety of birds and wildlife including tigers, 
elephants and indigenous one horned rhino. the park offers exciting 
options of walking tours, jeep safaris, elephant back safaris and river 
canoe trips. 
, is situated on the shores of lake phewa, surrounded by 
annapurna range and the famous fishtail mountain. offering 
breathtaking scenery, pokhara is the starting point of many treks in 
nepal. boating, cycling, walking and trekking are popular ways to 
enjoy the stunning beauty of pokhara. 
: kathmandu -  nagarkot -  kathmandu  - 
pokhara -  kathmandu 
: kathmandu -  nagarkot -  kathmandu - pokhara  
chitwan national park -  kathmandu
: kathmandu -  chisopani -  nagarkot -  dhulikhel 
-  kathmandu
: kathmandu - duhilikhel - nagarkot- 
kathmandu - kurintar - pokhara -  chitwan national park - 
kathmandu
suggested itineraries
touch base with nepal 
jewels of nepal 
trekking beauty  
nepalese heights 
kingdom  of  nepal
36 did you know? mount everest (8,848 meters), the highest peak in the world, is located in nepal. 
nepal
dhangadhi
nepalganj pokhara
kathmandu
chitwan n.p
janakpur
mount 
everest
dharan
biratnagar
h i m a
l a y a n      
r a n
g e
nagarkot
annapurna

hotels in nepal 
dwarikas hotel, kathmandu
hyatt regency, kathmandu
yak  yeti, kathmandu 
soaltee crown plaza, kathmandu 
radisson, kathmandu 
shangri-la, kathmandu 
tiger mountain lodge, pokhara
fishtail lodge, pokhara
tiger tops jungle lodge, chitwan 
tiger tops tented camp, chitwan
scenic flights over mount everest
when to travel to nepal
nepal offers the unique experience of scenic mountain flights over the worlds highest peak, mount everest. enjoy spectacular views of the snow capped 
mount everest and himalayan ranges, aboard a small plane, with every seat having its own window! the hour long flight, takes off from kathmandu airport. 
nepals climate is very similar to north india, so the best time to travel is from october to march. whilst december  january are cold months, they also 
offer stunning views of himalayan peaks. being a mountainous country, morning and night temperatures drop significantly, even though the day may be 
warm and pleasant. game viewing in chitwan national park can be very chilly in the morning. 
kingdom  of  nepal
37www.traveliteindia.com

bhutan : the dragon kingdom
bhutan, the serene mountain kingdom, untouched by modernity, 
still retains its old world charm. opened to tourists in 1974, bhutan 
is an ancient land, rich in buddhist culture, where buddhism 
overpowers every aspect of routine life, art and traditions. dotted 
with ancient monasteries, temples and stupas, bhutan lies in the 
ranges of eastern himalayas bordered by tibet on the north and 
india on the south. 
paro
punakha
thimphu
, the beautiful bhutanese valley, encapsulates within itself a rich 
culture, scenic beauty and hundreds of myths and legends. the most 
historic city of bhutan, paro is popular for its paro dzong, also known 
as rinpung dzong, meaning fortress sitting on a heap of jewels, a 
fine example of bhutanese architecture. paro is also home to 
taktshang monastery, popularly called the tigers nest, one of the 
most popular spiritual heritage sites, perched precariously on the rock 
face of a sheer cliff 2950m above the ground.
, the erstwhile winter capital of bhutan, heralds the most 
enchanting views of the himalayas. punakha dzong was the second 
dzong to be built in bhutan and was the seat of government when 
punakha was the capital city. en-route from paro to punakha lies the 
dochula pass, offering mesmerizing views of the himalayan ranges, 
valleys and meadows. 
, the capital city of bhutan, is the largest city and 
administrative head office of bhutan. thimphus landmark is 
trashichho dzong, the impressive fortress/monastery which houses 
the secretariat building, the throne room of his majesty and various 
government offices. the national memorial chorten in thimphu, 
treasures paintings and statues providing a deep insight into buddhist 
philosophy. the city is also renowned for its handicrafts emporium, 
textile and folk heritage museum and the national library displaying 
a wide range of beautifully hand-woven textiles, craft products, books 
on bhutan, buddhism and himalayan culture and ancient buddhist 
texts and manuscripts. 
bhutan : the  dragon  kingdom
38 did you know? the national sport of bhutan is archery.
gasa
lhuntse
trashigang
mongar
pemagatshel
samdrup jonghar
dampu
sarpang
dagachhukha
samtse
thimphu punakha
wangdue 
zhemgangparo
ha
phuntsholing
trongsa jakar
bhutan

bhumthang
trongsa
, a spectacular bhutanese valley, is the largest valley in 
the country. popular sites in bhumthang include the kurje lhakhang, 
the resting place of deceased kings of bhutan; the jambe and tamshing 
lhakhangs, two of the oldest temples dating to the 7th century; the 
jakar dzong, the dzong fabled to have been founded by a white bird. 
bhumthang markets offer the unique speciality of the region such as 
rich woollen textiles dyed with natural colours and yatas, a thin 
woollen cloth with bright patterns often made into warm jackets and 
scarves.
, the ancestral home of bhutans royal family, is renowned 
for its trongsa dzong, one of the most impressive dzong in bhutan, 
built in 1647. the dzongs labyrinth of temples, corridors, offices and 
living quarters for the monks add up to a masterpiece in bhutanese 
architecture. located close to trongsa is the gantey valley and 
phobjika valley, well known as one of the last wintering grounds of the 
endangered and graceful black-necked cranes that fly in from northern 
china, mongolia and siberia. 
hotels in bhutan
suggested itineraries
touch base with bhutan
discover bhutan
bhutanese heights
amankora, paro
uma, paro 
taj tashi, thimphu 
amankora, thimphu
amankora, punakha
amankora, bhumthang
: paro -  thimphu - punakha -  paro
: paro - punakha - trongsa - bhumthang- 
thimphu -  paro 
:  paro - thimphu -  wangdue - punakha -  paro
the best time to visit bhutan is during dry season which lasts from 
october to may. whilst december  january are cold months, they also 
offer stunning views of himalayan peaks. pleasant day temperatures 
allow convenient sightseeing even during winter months.  being a 
mountainous country, morning and night temperatures drop 
significantly, even though the day may be warm and pleasant. 
l   
l   
l   
when to travel to bhutan
bhutan : the  dragon  kingdom
39www.traveliteindia.com

sri  lanka
sri lanka, the tea country island, is rich in cultural, archaeological 
and natural treasures. offering ample of colonial history, sri lanka is 
a land of diversity with its towering buddhas, ancient cities and 
towns, green carpeted hill resorts, national wildlife parks, tea 
plantations, scenic golf courses and beautiful beaches. 
sri  lanka
colombo
lsigiriya
lpolonnaruwa
ldambulla caves
kandy
, the capital of sri lanka, is the largest city and main port of 
sri lanka. it is also the commercial and financial center of the country. 
a bustling metropolis, the city is an attractive blend of old and new 
architecture and culture. colombo is famous for its national museum, 
churches, buddhist temples, parks and the focal areas of the fort and 
pettah bazaar. 
the cultural triangle, is the name given to the historic sites of 
sigirya, dambulla and polonnaruwa, located north east of colombo. 
 rock towers over the surrounding landscape with steep 
steps leading to the ruins of the 5th century fort on top. also known 
as lions rock, this ancient rock fortress is surrounded by the 
remains of an extensive network of gardens, reservoirs, and other 
structures. sigiriya is also renowned for its ancient frescos, 
reminiscent of the ajanta caves in india. 
, an ancient city of sri lanka, dates back to the 
11th century. the ruins of erstwhile palaces, temples, baths and 
audience halls in polonnaruwa indicate the sophisticated lifestyle 
followed in the region in ancient times. the museum here stores a 
good collection of antique statues and pottery. nearby are five 
magnificent statues of lord buddha, carved from bed rock in 
standing, sitting and sleeping positions.
st
, date back to the 1  century and provide an 
illuminating insight into buddhism. these are the best preserved 
cave temples in sri lanka and one of the finest in asia. the caves 
house more than 150 statues of lord buddha and intricate 
paintings depicting buddha and his life. 
, the beautiful hill town, is set besides a lake and surrounded by 
hills covered in spice and tea plantations. at its heart is the ancient 
temple that houses the tooth relic of lord buddha. within close 
proximity to kandy is the pinnawela elephant orphanage, where you 
can see herds of elephants being bathed and fed, where baby elephants 
are hand fed with bottles. 
40 did you know? cinnamon, the fragrant spice, originated in sri lanka. 
anuradapura polonnaruwa
sigiriya
dambulla
kandy
negombo
airport nuwara eliya
ella
beruwela
bentota
uda walawe yala
tissa
hambantota
galle
srilanka
colombo

nuwara eliya
national parks
galle
, the picturesque hill resort, still retains its british 
charm with its race track, golf course, and colonial bungalows with 
gardens. popular for its ceylon tea, the town is surrounded by dozens 
of tea estates and tea processing centres. with its natural beauty and 
serenity, nuwara eliya, is a tranquil retreat, far from the bustling city 
life. 
 in sri lanka are famed for their elephant herds, 
crocodiles, sloth bear, leopards, and a variety of bird life. the most 
popular wildlife park is yala national park, which is reported to have 
the highest density of leopards in asia. other popular wildlife parks 
include uda walawe national park, sinharaja biosphere (a world 
heritage rain forest, renowned for its variety of reptiles and birds) and 
minneriya national park (located at the centre of the cultural triangle, 
famous for its wild elephants).
, the coastal town along the south west coast of sri lanka, is 
dotted with hidden beaches and beautiful beach resorts. the 
portuguese landed in galle in the 16th century, followed by the dutch 
in the 17th century who built the walled fort, which has now been 
declared as world heritage site. 
casa colombo, colombo
elephant stables, kandy
cinnamon citadel, kandy
heritance kandalama, sigiriya
cinnamon lodge, sigiriya
heritance tea factory, nuwara eliya
amangalla resort, galle
saman villas, bentota
hotels in sri lanka
sri  lanka
suggested itineraries
best of sri lanka
gems sri lanka 
around sri lanka 
l
l  
l  
when to travel to sri lanka
: colombo - habarana - sigirya - kandy - colombo
:  colombo - sigirya - kandy - nuwara eliya - 
colombo 
:  colombo / negombo - sigiriya - kandy - nuwara 
eliya - sinharaja - galle - colombo
traditionally, sri lanka used to have 2 monsoon seasons i.e. may to  
july in south west and december to january in north east of the 
country. however, owing to the global climate change, rains now occur 
even outside the official monsoon period. sri lanka experiences short 
and heavy showers rather than prolonged rain, allowing sightseeing to 
continue with short breaks! the highlands around nuwara eliya 
remain cool throughout the year. with temperatures hovering around 
late twenties to early thirties throughout the year, november to april is 
a good time to travel around the country. 
41www.traveliteindia.com

maldives 
maldives
maldives are a cluster of 1,190 emerald 
islands with dazzling green centre of palm 
trees fringed with white sand and bordered 
by the clear turquoise indian ocean. a 
paradise for sun lovers, snorkellers and 
divers, maldives is a perfect destination for 
a romantic getaway, honeymoon or a 
tranquil relaxing holiday. the airport, male, 
is located centrally between the islands, and 
a speed boat or sea plane is used for airport 
to hotel transfers. the maldives feature a 
variety of resorts, each resort located on its 
own little island, with its own unique charm. 
accommodation ranges from individual 
cottages to overwater villas. we present to 
you a selection of some of the finest resorts 
in maldives. 
medhufushi island resort
conrad rangali island resort
, offering 112 
private villas, each designed to offer subtle 
and natural luxury in a picture-postcard 
paradise, with every ingredient to satisfy your 
dream of the perfect hideaway! for water-
sports enthusiasts and divers the 
opportunities are endless, whilst relaxation 
seekers have a great selection of spa 
therapies.
, an 
award-winning resort, set on two private 
islands among miles of picturesque white-
sand beach and vibrant coral reef. arrive in 
style in a seaplane over the lagoon, dine in the 
worlds first all-glass undersea restaurant and 
indulge in luxurious spa therapies. twice 
voted best hotel in the world, the resort 
boasts 50 luxurious water villas, 79 exotic 
beach villas and 21 fabulous spa water villas 
with private treatment rooms.
42 did you know? maldives is the flatest country in the world.

maldives 
adaaran prestige water villas
one and only reethi rah resort
soneva fushi by six senses
w retreat  spa maldives
, located 
centrally, a short ride away from male, is a sublime 
tropical paradise providing indulgent luxury. guest 
staying at the water villas experience the very best 
in personalised luxury with each guest assigned 
their own personal butler! every need is tended to, 
enabling you to completely relax in the serene and 
enchanting tranquillity of this blissful heaven on 
earth. 
, is a member 
of the prestigious leading small hotels of the 
world, and winner of the 2008 conde nast 
travellers award for the best resort in the world. 
with glorious water villas overlooking the placid, 
rhythmic climes of the indian ocean, and adorned 
with stunning white sandy coves and turquoise 
waters  this is undoubtedly heaven on earth. 
, offers a subtle mix 
of remoteness and sophistication, conveying the 
natural charm and indigenous feel of the maldives 
with exceptional level of elegance and luxury. the 
resorts philosophy of no news, no shoes dictates 
that guests should feel a real sense of  abandon and 
escape here. the limited accommodation choices 
ensure service is always of the highest order. the 
island, measuring 1.5 km, is surrounded by exotic 
jungles and lapping waves of the surrounding blue 
lagoons for the perfect romantic setting.
, is an ultra-stylish 
resort located on the exclusive island of fesdu. ws 
contemporary approach focusses on a lifestyle-
orientated concept that is in perfect harmony with 
the island. the traditional maldivian exteriors 
conceal modern interiors with sweeping arcs of 
gleaming white sand and calm turquoise waters. 
luxuriously appointed private accommodation 
provides guests with every comfort; facilities and 
out of the ordinary diving opportunities make this 
island retreat the place to get set to jet set 
shangri-las villingili resort and spa
zitahli resorts and spa kuda funafaru
, 
offers a stylish experience in a spacious, all-villa 
resort, surrounded by lush vegetation including 
17,000 coconut trees and over 6 kilometres of 
scenic coastline. tastefully furnished 
accommodation includes private ocean retreats and 
tropical tree house villas - unique to the maldives - 
with superb views. those seeking an experience 
with a difference can enjoy a cruise on a luxury 
yacht with lunch on the equator!
, 
surrounded by untouched reefs, turquoise water 
and pristine beaches, is a breathtaking luxury resort 
comprising of 50 contemporary villas designed to 
inspire peace, solitude and relaxation. offering 
privacy and seclusion, the resort exemplifies classic 
maldivian hospitality. the spa with plunge pools, 
herbal baths, luxurious relaxation lounges provides 
organic therapies with an holistic approach to 
health and well-being. arrival by seaplane will take 
your breath away!
43www.traveliteindia.com

44
experience 
the indian subcontinent
north india, nepal  bhutan
experience the culture and spirituality of the indian sub continent. 
enrich your senses in the medley of cultural extravaganza of north 
india, nepal and bhutan
rajasthan, the land of forts and palaces
rajasthan, the land of princes, still living in its historic past, 
houses the largest number of forts and palaces in the world. 
renowned as the land of sand dunes and camel safaris, a trip to 
india cannot be complete without a visit to rajasthan
health and wellness 
india is home to a wonderful collection of yoga retreats, ayurveda 
(a vedic science known as the science of life) and spa resorts. 
enjoy a luxurious stay at some of the finest wellness retreats in the 
country
himalayan glory
in sanskrit, himalaya means abode of snow (hima means snow, 
and aalaya means abode). experience the cool himalayan breeze 
in the land of sages
south india  sri lanka 
south india  sri lanka offer a variety ranging from ayurveda and 
spas, to beaches  backwaters, wildlife, temples, heritage  
culture, luxury trains, spice plantations, hill resorts and a lot 
more.
wildlife
experience the rich diversity of the flora and fauna of the indian 
sub continent. the sight and sounds of a majestic elephant, a 
peacocks dance, the one horned rhino, the roar of a tiger are 
unparalleled experiences offered by various wildlife parks in the 
indian subcontinent. 
beaches and backwaters
experience the serene beaches and backwaters of the indian sub 
continent
luxury trains
india offers a beautiful selection of luxury trains operating in 
different regions of the country. 
north india  varanasi   khajuraho   orchha  agra  kolkata  delhi 
 haridwar  rishikesh  amritsar  dharamsala 
nepal  kathmandu  pokhara  lumbini  chitwan 
bhutan  paro  punakha  thimphu  bhumthang
 mandawa  bikaner   jaisalmer   jodhpur  
 udaipur  jaipur  samode  rohet  pushkar 
 khimsar  ranthambore  nagaur  ranakpur 
 ananda in the himalayas, rishikesh  niraamaya surya samudra, kovalam 
 the leela, kovalam  carnaustie ayurveda  wellness resort, marari 
 somatheeram  manaltheeram beach resort, kovalam  travancore 
heritage, kovalam  cgh kalari kovilakom, palakkad  cgh kalari rasayana, 
kollam  neeleshwar hermitage, neeleshwar  cgh swaswara, gokarna 
 soukya, bangalore  kumarakom lake resort, kumarakom  cgh coconut 
lagoon, kumarakom  cgh marari beach resort, marari  dr franklin 
panchkarma institute, kovalam  bethsaida hermitage, kovalam
 kashmir   ladakh   dalhousie   dharamsala 
 shimla   manali   mussoorie  darjeeling  
 almora   sikkim 
 nepal   bhutan
south india  mumbai  kochi  kumarakom  alleppey  munnar  periyar 
 kovalam  hyderabad  hampi  badami  bangalore  mysore   ooty 
 chennai  mahabalipuram  kanchipuram  pondicherry  madurai 
sri lanka  colombo  sigiriya  polonnaruwa  dambulla  anuradhapura 
 kandy
india  kanha  bandhavgarh  bharatpur  ranthambore  corbett  pench 
 manas  bandipur  sunderban  kaziranga  periyar  sariska 
nepal  chitwan national park
sri lanka  yala national park,  uda walawe national park  sinharaja 
biosphere  minneriya national park
india  goa  kovalam  kollam  bekal  kumarakom  alleppey  
 mahabalipuram  puri  lakshdweep  andaman 
sri lanka  galle   bentota   trincomalee 
maldives 
 palace on wheels  royal rajasthan on wheels 
 the deccan odyssey  the golden chariot 
 maharajas express
wr e itn ht  ur sap

45www.traveliteindia.com

travelite (india)
destination management company
head office : rz  a / 96, road no. 6, 
street no. 9, mahipalpur extension
new delhi  110037, india
tel  : 00-91-11- 4712 5200
fax : 00-91-11- 4712 5205
email : tourstraveliteindia.com 
website : www.traveliteindia.com
recognised by ministry of tourism, govt. of india
tourism is our business, but each tour is a travellers memory,
we take responsibility to ensure these memories are cherished forever
team travelite (india)
designed at printed at adprint service, new delhi (india) 91-11-9811402730



table from page 1 - table 1
india
nepal  bhutan  sri lanka  maldives



travelite (india)
destination management company


table from page 2 - table 1
	the travelite advantage
well integrated ... in tourism industry
travelite (india) is a part of the ktc group. established in
1943, our parent company, ktc india, pioneered luxury
coach and car travel in the country. the group also includes
ktc grand tours, our worldwide holiday division.
wealth ... of experience
nurtured with more than 70 years of experience, today
travelite (india) has created a dynasty of professionalism,
cultivated with experience in the indian tourism industry.
focus... on service excellence
flowing from the top, service excellence is the foundation of
ktc group, being our first virtue, embedded in our culture
by founder owner, mr des raj singh.
add value... to our agents
we work with our agents. we aspire to differentiate our
agents from the masses, by offering them top of the league
products and services. growth of our agents defines our
success.
zero tolerance... in our team
tourism is our business, but each tour is a travellers
memory. we take responsibility to ensure these memories
are cherished forever. we understand the significance of
meticulous planning, cross checks, and follow ups to ensure
seamless service.
nurture... long term relationships
our strongest business partners and team members have
been with us longest, reiterating our belief that relationships
are paramount in our business.
innovate... unique products  services
our aim is to exceed expectations of our travellers.
innovation keeps us one step ahead and ensures we surprise
our travellers even on their nth tour with us.
continuous... learning
learning never stops and one can never learn enough! our
corporate growth is driven by continuous learning and
development of our team members - together we can touch
the sky!	contents
welcome note 1
the travelite experience 2
map of indian subcontinent 3
north india
golden triangle 4
golden triangle extensions 5
forts  palaces of rajasthan 6
desert camps of rajasthan 8
rural rajasthan 9
himalayan beauty 10
luxury in north india 11
east  north east india
west bengal  sikkim 12
temples, tribes  tea 13
in the footsteps of buddha 14
indian waterways
river cruises 16
beach havens of india 17
west  south india
gujarat to karnataka 18
kerala : gods own country 19
temple trails of tamil nadu 20
luxury in south india 21
concept tours
wellness in india 22
luxury train journeys 24
wildlife encounters 26
special interest tours 28
adventure in india 30
m.i.c.e 32
private charters 34
weddings in india 35
indian sub-continent
kingdom of nepal 36
bhutan : the dragon kingdom 38
sri lanka 40
maldives 42


table from page 3 - table 1

welcome to india : the land of euphoria
india is a medley of fascinating colours and cultures, an historical the snow covered himalayan peaks of nepal, the serenity of bhutan,
legacy, a canvas of architectural masterpieces, and an extravagant green tea estates of sri lanka and the turquoise beaches of maldives,
exuberance of royal splendour. this land of sages and ancient legends the indian sub continent treasures it all.
is home to the eternal symbol of love - the taj mahal, magnificent forts
when travelling to india, it is worth taking a short trip to a
and palaces of rajasthan, emerald beaches of goa and kerala, ancient
neighbouring country, to enhance your experience. you will notice a
caves of ajanta and ellora and the golden temple of amritsar.
striking similarity, yet subtle differences in the people, food, culture,
crowned by himalayas in the north and surrounded by oceans in the religion and lifestyle in the entire subcontinent. it is in these
south, india offers a platter full of variety, packed in one country. differences that we celebrate the unity in diversity of the indian
ranging from walking trails through himalayan villages, to desert subcontinent.
camps in the sand dunes, tribal and rural experiences, modern
allow us to create an experience of a lifetime, an inspiring journey to an
metropolitan cities, wildlife parks, serene backwaters, luxury trains,
exotic land, discovering the people, culture, tradition, history and
river cruises and adventure tours, the choice is only limited by your
legacy of our incredible india and its neighbouring wonderlands. with
imagination!
our passion, experience and meticulous planning, we promise to weave
in this brochure, we introduce you to the mesmerising beauty of the memories you will cherish forever.
indian subcontinent. combining the cultural splendours of india with
welcome aboard your indian voyage with travelite (india)
www.traveliteindia.com 1


table from page 4 - table 1
the travelite experience

our people are the core of travelite (india), making each tour unique our price is constantly reviewed, to ensure it remains at the lowest
and interesting. from their gracious smile and friendly personality to level possible. we take pride in knowing that our tours offer excellent
their meticulous attention to detail, with every tour, they aim to achieve value for money. when compared to another tour of similar standard,
better than their best. with our high recruitment standards and regular we are confident that our tours will not be over priced.
performance reviews, we ensure we recruit and retain the best.
service portfolio
our service commences as soon as we receive your enquiry. we
ensure your enquiry is handled by experienced staff, who understand
(cid:108)customized tailor made tours
the significance of replying in time, suggesting itineraries that meet
your precise requirements and operating the tour with utmost (cid:108)fixed departure tours
attention to detail. our staff will remain alert to your concerns and (cid:108)hotel reservations
requirements till the time you return satisfied to your home country.
(cid:108)sightseeing and excursion tours
our products undergo continuous improvement. our central
(cid:108)unique culture connection experiences
research team gathers innovative ideas from across the subcontinent.
these ideas are discussed, deliberated and once tested and approved, (cid:108)private plane  helicopter charter services
immediately implemented in our tours. this ensures continuous (cid:108)government  vip delegations
innovation in our products, making our tours unique and interesting.
(cid:108)incentive tours
our suggested hotels  restaurants are hand picked by us.
(cid:108)meetings  conference handling
our stringent selection criteria ensure we only approve the best in the
(cid:108)land travel: we operate our own fleet of premium cars (e.g
category. our preferred properties are periodically reviewed by us for
bmw, mercedes, audi) and luxury coaches (e.g volvo, king
their facilities, service standards, maintenance standards, surrounding
long)
developments and assessed against client feedback. we continuously
monitor new upcoming properties to ensure our guests receive the (cid:108)air travel: domestic  international air tickets
best.
(cid:108)train travel: train tours around india; luxury train journeys
our transport is owned, managed and run by our parent company, of india
ktc india. located in the same premises and operated by the same
(cid:108)facilitation services: transfers  assistance at all major
management allows us direct control over our vehicles and chauffeurs.
airports  hotels across the indian subcontinent
our fleet is maintained sparkling new with utmost attention given to
(cid:108)language speaking guides / escorts / interpreters
cleanliness, regular vehicle maintenance, timely road safety checks
and regular fleet renewal policy. (cid:108)24 hours helpline service for our guests
2


table from page 4 - table 2
service portfolio

(cid:108)customized tailor made tours
(cid:108)fixed departure tours
(cid:108)hotel reservations
(cid:108)sightseeing and excursion tours
(cid:108)unique culture connection experiences
(cid:108)private plane  helicopter charter services
(cid:108)government  vip delegations
(cid:108)incentive tours
(cid:108)meetings  conference handling
(cid:108)land travel: we operate our own fleet of premium cars (e.g
bmw, mercedes, audi) and luxury coaches (e.g volvo, king
long)
(cid:108)air travel: domestic  international air tickets
(cid:108)train travel: train tours around india; luxury train journeys
of india
(cid:108)facilitation services: transfers  assistance at all major
airports  hotels across the indian subcontinent
(cid:108)language speaking guides / escorts / interpreters
(cid:108)24 hours helpline service for our guests


table from page 11 - table 1
aidni
htron
rural rajasthan bijaipur, a small rusty village, where life revolves around the
beautiful bijaipur castle built in the 16th century. converted into a
in the heart of rajasthan, lie a number of small towns and villages, heritage hotel, bijaipur castle is the centre of attraction in bijaipur
which define the true essence of this land. a visit to these hidden today.
gems, provides an opportunity to learn about the people, culture and
khempur, is an ethnic village renowned for its trained marwari and
lifestyle of rural india. stay at erstwhile forts and palaces, which
kathiawari horses. ravla khempur, a converted heritage property,
have now been converted to heritage hotels, and experience the
offers the option to explore the nearby
intriguing traditions and customs of tribal rajasthan.
villages on horsebacks.
narlai, situated midway between jodhpur  udaipur, is known for its
deogarh, a charming village in
17th century villa, ravla narlai, now converted to a heritage hotel. a
the heart of rajasthan offers a
stay here, allows an opportunity to explore the surrounding village.
convenient base for visiting the
luni, is a hub of activity with its many artisans fashioning metal, clay famous kumbalgarh and
and wood into intricate designs, demonstrating the skills learnt over chittaurgarh forts and the jain
centuries. stay at fort chanwa of luni, an exceptional example of temples of ranakpur.
elegance and symmetry in indian architecture, now a heritage hotel. deogarh fort, a magnificent
chandelao, a rustic village close to jodhpur, offers jeep, camel and architectural masterpiece, is
bullock cart safari options to explore the village. chandelao artisans now a heritage hotel.
excel in pottery and weaving. the medieval fort of chandelao, has now
jojawar, in the foothills
been converted into a heritage hotel called chandelao garh.
of aravalli ranges offers a
madhogarh, the village of potters, carpenters and cobblers, unique train safari
displaying their skills pursuing their ancient family trades. stay at fort through the picturesque
madhogarh, now a heritage hotel. aravallis.
pachewar, is a village famous for pottery, carpets, tie and dye fabrics,
terra cotta and nomadic blacksmiths. stay at pachewar fort, a well-
preserved 300 year old fort with massive ramparts, now a heritage
hotel.
bundi, is home to an impressive medieval fort famous for its delicate
miniatures, step-wells that functioned as water reservoirs centuries
ago, and the nearby villages with more than 1,200 looms producing
kota doriya saris.
www.traveliteindia.com 9	aidni
htron


table from page 12 - table 1
aidni
htron	himalayan beauty
the himalayas extend over 2,500km in east-west and between a
range of 250-425km in north-south direction. formed in three
parallel ranges, the himalayas extend over more than one country.
himalayan tours can be designed to suit diverse interests including
adventure, culture, wellness, spiritual, wildlife, walking or leisure
tours.
ladakh, renowned for its remote mountain beauty, is strongly	
		
		


table from page 12 - table 2
himalayan beauty
the himalayas extend over 2,500km in east-west and between a
range of 250-425km in north-south direction. formed in three
parallel ranges, the himalayas extend over more than one country.
himalayan tours can be designed to suit diverse interests including
adventure, culture, wellness, spiritual, wildlife, walking or leisure
tours.
ladakh, renowned for its remote mountain beauty, is strongly
influenced by tibetan culture and popularly called little tibet of
india. famous as the adventure capital of himalayas, ladakh offers
mountain climbing, cycling, jeep safaris, yak safaris, mountaineering,
river rafting, village walks and trekking.


table from page 12 - table 3




table from page 13 - table 1
	aidni
htron
	
	


table from page 13 - table 2




table from page 13 - table 3




table from page 15 - table 1
aidni
tsae
htron

tsae
temples, tribes  tea world. assam is renowned for its tea, rich flora and fauna, the world
famous one horned rhinoceros and other rare species of wildlife found
in kaziranga and manas national parks.
orissa, aptly called miniature india, is a fascinating state with
unspoilt beaches, sprawling lakes, rich forests, historic monuments
other states of north east india
and temples, exotic handicrafts, traditional tribes, colourful fairs,
festivals and dances.
the north eastern region of india includes unexplored states of
(cid:108)bhubaneswar, the capital city of orissa, home to ancient rock cut meghalaya, arunachal pradesh, manipur, mizoram, tripura and
caves, wall paintings and sculptures. nagaland. whilst not fully explored for tourism yet, this remote region
is natures paradise. offering exotic landscapes of emerald green
(cid:108)puri, the beautiful beach town of orissa, known for the famous
valleys, untouched wilderness, looming mountains, enchanting caves,
temple of lord jagannath.
serene blue lakes and rivers, cascading waterfalls, whispering pines
(cid:108)konark, a small hamlet, renowned for the magnificent konark sun and fresh air, the north eastern region of india offers all this and more.
temple. the tribal belt of this region includes unique ethnic tribes, with their
distinctive habitats and lifestyles, not found anywhere else in india.
(cid:108)chilika, asias largest brackish water lake, treasures a wide variety
of migratory birds and dolphins.
(cid:108)gopalpur, rayagada, jeypore are home to unusual tribes who still suggested itineraries
live in forests in a subsistence village economy, bartering their
produce for survival. some of these primitive tribes are far
(cid:108)highlights of west bengal and sikkim : kolkata - bagdogra /
removed from the concept of clothing and wear wooden and stone
darjeeling - pemayangste - gangtok - kalimpong - bagdogra /
artefacts as cover. visit tribal villages and markets, and have first
kolkata
hand encounters with primitive tribes of india.
(cid:108)tribes of orissa : bhubaneshwar - puri - gopalpur - rayagada
chhattisgarh, a treasure for mineral resources, is indias industrial
- jeypore - gopalpur - bhubaneshwar
hub for steel, aluminium and cement industries. the state of
(cid:108)assam valley tour : guwahati - jorhat - sibasagar - jorhat - toklai -
chhattisgarh is famous for its tussar  mulberry silks, ancient rock and
limestone caves, chitrakote waterfalls - the largest waterfall in india, kaziranga - guwahati
and for its unique tribal experiences which allow for visits to tribal (cid:108)natures paradise : shillong - cherrapunji - kaziranga - kohima -
villages, haat bazaars, and seeing tribal dances, festivities and touphema - dimori cove - jorhat - majuli - guwahati
museums.
(cid:108)tea trails : dibrugarh - digboi - jorhat - kaziranga - guwahati
assam, a land nestled in myths and mysteries, has rich green terrain of
(cid:108)north eastern wildlife : guwahati - manas - nameri - kaziranga
rolling plains and dense forests. river brahmaputra charts its majestic
dibrugarh - dibrusaikhowa - deban - dibrugarh
course through assam, feeding majuli, the largest river island in the
www.traveliteindia.com 13	aidni
tsae
htron

tsae


table from page 21 - table 1
aidni
htuos

tsew
kerala : gods own country wayanad, a quaint town in north kerala, is famous for its wildlife,
ayurveda centres and plantation resorts. in close vicinity are schools of
located along south western coast of india, kerala resembles a kalari, a popular martial art form of south india and the hill resort of
banana leaf clinging between the western ghats and beaches of lakkidi, offering options for trekking and visiting caves more than
arabian sea. 5000 years old.
kerala has been included in the top 50 tourist destinations for once backwaters of kerala encompass a complex network of lagoons,
in a life time visit by national geographic channel. the beauty of lakes,  canals, that are best experienced aboard traditional thatch-
kerala lies in its placid nature encompassing serene backwaters, roofed rice houseboat, known as kettuvallam. on display is life on the
beaches, hill stations, spice plantations, flora and fauna, ayurveda, banks, lush green rice fields, and coconut groves with an occasional
boat races, natural harbours and more. temple or church as you cruise through the backwaters. the
houseboats come along with a chef on board, preparing authentic
kochi, the most cosmopolitan city of kerala, is also known as queen
kerala cuisine. the serene backwaters around kumarakom and
of the arabian sea. the distinctive architecture seen in dutch
alleppey can also be enjoyed in the privacy of a deluxe villa, luxury
mansions, portuguese churches, jewish synagogue, british store
hotel or resort with canals running through the property!
houses and 14th century chinese fishing nets, reflects kochis long
history as an important sea port and trading centre. kochi is renowned beaches of kerala, along the shores of arabian sea, are ideal for a
for its spectacular kathakali performance, one of the oldest theatre relaxing vacation. golden beaches dotted with coconut and palm
forms in india. performed by characters with vividly painted faces and groves, are peppered with ayurveda and spa resorts. sun bathing,
elaborate costumes, kathakali is a spectacular combination of drama, swimming, ayurveda treatments, yoga and meditation, fishing with
dance, music and rituals, re-enacting stories from the hindu epics of local fishermen are some popular beach activities at kerala. renowned
mahabharata and ramayana. beaches include kovalam, marari, kollam, bekal and varkala.
periyar, the hub of spice plantations in kerala, is also famous for its villages along the coast of kerala offer an insight into the local
wildlife park which is best experienced aboard a boat cruise on lake lifestyle, crafts, traditions and cultures of the region. popular coastal
periyar. the wildlife sanctuary is home to elephants, deer, wild boars, villages of kerala include beypore, a quaint village known for centuries
bears, flying squirrels, and a variety of bird and reptile species. the as the shipbuilding centre of south india, is famous for its country boats
town is fragranced with the spicy aromas of pepper, cardamom, called uru; mahe, an erstwhile french settlement in kerala; kannur, a
cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg. coastal town known for its pristine beaches and handloom industry, is
munnar, a famous hill resort in east kerala, had long fascinated also renowned for its old hookah factory.
europeans and became the southern summer resort of british india.
munnar valley was developed by scottish planters in the early 20th
century. munnar is carpeted by thick forests and tea estates. the
specialty of munnar is jungle honey, tea and a rare flower neela
kurunji which blooms once in 12 years.
www.traveliteindia.com 19	aidni
htuos

tsew


table from page 24 - table 1
aidni
ni
ssenllew	wellness in india
india is home to a wonderful selection of yoga and meditation
retreats, ayurveda centres and spa resorts. these are scattered all
over the country - in the hills, amidst spice plantations, along the
backwaters, on the beach, in palace hotels, in desert camps, and in
modern cities. varying in style, comfort and price, the choice is only
limited by your imagination!
india is also the budding hub for medical tourism. with quality
hospitals, qualified doctors, impeccable service and no waiting time,
the country is gradually becoming the first choice for patients
requiring specialist surgeries and medical procedures.
provide access to a panel of reputed specialists to help the patient
ayurveda
identify a suitable hospital and doctor providing the appropriate
treatment for his / her ailment.
ayurveda, the oldest form of healthcare in the world, has been
india offers expertise in a range of surgical and elective procedures,
practiced in india for thousands of years. ayurveda means knowledge
popular ones being:
of life. india offers holistic ayurvedic therapies, based on physical
treatment and philosophical and psychological healing. ayurveda surgical procedures  hip resurfacing  hip replacement  knee
views ailments as a result of combination of factors along with specific replacement  spinal cord surgery  coronary artery bypass grafting
components of diet, and customises treatments for patients. ayurvedic (c.a.b.g.)  coronary balloon angioplasty  stent implantation
principles are found in detail in atharva veda, one of the four ancient angiography  cardiac valve replacement  gastric bypass  gastric
vedas (holy scriptures) of hinduism. banding  plastic surgery
ayurvedic treatments are divided into eight branches  kaya chikilsa elective procedures  eye care including treatments for cataract,
(general medicine)  shalya (surgery)  shalakya (ent and glaucoma, treatment for retinal diseases and laser surgeries  ent
ophthalmology)  graha (psychotherapy)  damshitra (toxicology) treatments for disorders related to diseases, injuries, or deformations
bala (pediatrics and gynaecology)  jara (rejuvenation)  vrishya of the ears, nose, throat  dental care including implants, crowns,
(aphrodisiacs) bridges, dentures, root canal treatments and aesthetic beauty
treatments  cosmetic treatments
travelite (india) offers customised ayurveda packages and courses at
popular centres in india.
medical tourism yoga  meditation
medical tourism includes the provision of cost effective private the birthplace of yoga and meditation, india is an ideal destination for
medical care for patients needing surgical and other forms of rejuvenation of mind, body and soul. offering techniques for self
specialised treatments. medical or health tourism has become a realization and purification, yoga and meditation present a complete
popular form of vacationing, and combines leisure and relaxation with spiritual experience. a discipline of exercises for physical and mental
wellness and healthcare. well being, yoga combines stylised postures with deep breathing and
meditation to achieve a calm and focussed body and mind.
to meet the growing demand for medical tourism, travelite (india) has
aligned itself with leading international standard hospitals in india and travelite (india) offers customised yoga and meditation packages and
specialist panel of doctors to provide necessary information and courses at popular retreats in india.
services on various medical treatments to patients. our role is to
22 did you know? yoga originated in india and has been practiced by indians for over 5,000 years.	


table from page 24 - table 2
wellness in india
india is home to a wonderful selection of yoga and meditation
retreats, ayurveda centres and spa resorts. these are scattered all
over the country - in the hills, amidst spice plantations, along the
backwaters, on the beach, in palace hotels, in desert camps, and in
modern cities. varying in style, comfort and price, the choice is only
limited by your imagination!
india is also the budding hub for medical tourism. with quality
hospitals, qualified doctors, impeccable service and no waiting time,
the country is gradually becoming the first choice for patients
requiring specialist surgeries and medical procedures.
ayurveda
ayurveda, the oldest form of healthcare in the world, has been
practiced in india for thousands of years. ayurveda means knowledge
of life. india offers holistic ayurvedic therapies, based on physical
treatment and philosophical and psychological healing. ayurveda
views ailments as a result of combination of factors along with specific
components of diet, and customises treatments for patients. ayurvedic
principles are found in detail in atharva veda, one of the four ancient
vedas (holy scriptures) of hinduism.
ayurvedic treatments are divided into eight branches  kaya chikilsa
(general medicine)  shalya (surgery)  shalakya (ent and
ophthalmology)  graha (psychotherapy)  damshitra (toxicology)
bala (pediatrics and gynaecology)  jara (rejuvenation)  vrishya
(aphrodisiacs)
travelite (india) offers customised ayurveda packages and courses at
popular centres in india.
medical tourism
medical tourism includes the provision of cost effective private
medical care for patients needing surgical and other forms of
specialised treatments. medical or health tourism has become a
popular form of vacationing, and combines leisure and relaxation with
wellness and healthcare.
to meet the growing demand for medical tourism, travelite (india) has
aligned itself with leading international standard hospitals in india and
specialist panel of doctors to provide necessary information and
services on various medical treatments to patients. our role is to


table from page 25 - table 1
	aidni
ni
ssenl
	l
	ew


table from page 27 - table 1
syenruoj
niart
yruxul
golden chariot
golden chariot inherits its name from the stone chariot in hampi.
taking you on an enchanting and mesmerising journey through
karnataka, the golden chariot complements the rich culture of the
state of karnataka, and is a marvel in itself. the coach chambers of the
train are steeped in history, under a sky of intricate craftsmanship that
narrates timeless tales. a journey on board the golden chariot will give
you a chance to experience the luxurious lifestyle of erstwhile
maharajas, seeing history and heritage unfold itself!
the golden chariot features 26 twin bed cabins, 17 double bed cabins
royal rajasthan on wheels
and 1 cabin for physically challenged. there are 2 lavish restaurant
cars, a well stocked lounge/bar car, an ayurvedic massage centre and a the royal rajasthan on wheels was conceived to rekindle heritage and
gymnasium. luxury with modern amenities. the train is designed in contemporary
royal style, featuring exquisite silk and velvet bedspreads and
tour route : pride of the south: bangalore - kabini -
draperies, and finely carved wooden furniture in the super-deluxe
srirangapatnam - mysore - shravanabelagola -
suite. this luxury train is a regal delight, where every moment is woven
belur - halebid - hampi - badami - pattadakal 
together into an everlasting experience.
goa  bangalore
royal rajasthan on wheels features 13 deluxe coaches named after
southern splendour: bangalore - chennai -
the famous palaces of rajasthan and the super deluxe coach called
pondicherry - tanjavur - madurai -
taj mahal. there are 2 lavish and well stocked restro-bars, a business
thiruvananthpuram - alleppey - kochi 
centre, board room and fitness centre.
bangalore
tour route : new delhi  jodhpur  udaipur  chittaurgarh
tour duration : 7 nights / 8 days
 sawai madhopur  jaipur  khajuraho 
departure days : fixed departure dates
varanasi  agra  new delhi
operates from : september to april
tour duration : 7 nights / 8 days
departure days : every sunday
deccan odyssey
operates from : september to april
the deccan odyssey flaunts tourism jewels of the state of
maharashtra, including the heritage, ancient caves, local arts, crafts
and cuisine of the state. the week long deccan odyssey tour includes
exotic destinations covering the vast expanse of maharashtra and a
pinch of goa.
the deccan odyssey has 21 coaches, of which 11 are passenger cars
with 4 coupes each. there are 2 presidential suite cars with 2 coupes
in each. the train also has a conference car (can be redesigned as dance
floor at night) and 2 restaurant cars. there is also a lounge/bar car and
a spa car.
tour route : mumbai - sindhudurg - tarkarli - goa - kolhapur -
daulatabad - tadoba - ajanta - nashik  mumbai
tour duration : 7 nights / 8 days
departure days : fixed departure dates
operates from : september to april
www.traveliteindia.com 25	syenruoj
niart
yruxul


table from page 29 - table 1
sretnuocne
efildliw
corbett, indias first national park, set up in 1936, is located in the manas, is situated along the foothills of himalayas, in the north
foothills of western himalayas. the park was created with the help and eastern state of assam. manas national park is a stunning pristine
advice of the great hunter and conservationist, jim corbett. enjoy jeep wildlife habitat, with spectacular landscapes. a world heritage site,
and elephant safaris here, seeing sambar, deer, antelope, wild manas national park is a tiger, elephant and biosphere reserve. named
elephants, crocodiles, a variety of birds and maybe even tigers. after river manas, this national park is renowned for rare and
periyar, is set within the ranges of western ghats in the south indian endangered assam roofed turtle, hispid hare, golden langur and
state of kerala. enjoy exploring the wildlife reserve aboard a boat pygmy hog.
cruise on lake periyar, spotting local wildlife including gaurs, sambars,
gir, situated in the western state of gujarat, is the last abode of the
deer, and elephants along the banks.
asiatic lions in india. gir national park is also home to other wildlife
sunderbans, a unesco world heritage site, treasures dense such as leopards, sambars, deers and marsh crocodiles. the park is also
mangrove forests, winding rivers, narrow creeks, remote villages and a paradise for bird watchers with frequent sightings of changeable
tribal settlements. part of the worlds largest delta formed by river
hawk eagle, crested serpent eagle, bonnelis eagle, peregrine falcon,
ganges and brahmaputra, sunderbans is home to a variety of wildlife
black-hooded and golden oriels, and marshalls
including wild crocodiles, spotted deer, and the majestic royal bengal
tiger. luxury wildlife retreats
kaziranga, is situated in the north eastern state of assam, along the
 taj mahua kothi, bandhavgarh national park  taj baghvan, pench
banks of the mighty brahmaputra river. kaziranga national park is the
national park  taj pashan garh, panna national park  taj banjaar
natural habitat to one of the most endangered species in the world, the
one horned rhino. enjoy elephant safaris in this remote national park, tola, kanha national park  oberoi vanyavilas, ranthambore national
sighting a variety of birdlife and wildlife along with freely roaming one park  aman-i-khas, ranthambore national park
horned rhinos.
www.traveliteindia.com 27	sretnuocne
efildliw


table from page 31 - table 1
sruot
tseretni
laiceps
architectural marvels textile tours gems  jewel trails
being one of the oldest civilizations on indian textiles are rich in variety, owing to desire for precious jewels, stones and
earth, india is an architectural great diversity in the cultural set-up of metals is not new to indian men and
wonderland. indias architecture reflects a indian society. the textiles produced in women. excavations at the site of indus
fusion of various cultures and religions different regions of india are unique and valley civilization, dating back to 3rd
amalgamated with waves of time. epitomize historical traditions and century unearthed several examples of
the architectural wonders of india artistry. jewellery fashioned with skill. today, that
include himalayan crown: ladakhi indian textile marvels range from historic passion has transformed into a
pashmina, the soft and luxurious wool, modern and thriving industry, marked
architecture, arising from basic survival
reflecting the meticulous craftsmanship with quality, precision and perfection.
needs in the himalayan weather; buddhist
of kashmir ; phulkari, the colourful floral
monasteries with tibetan influences; gold, the yellow majestic shiny metal, has
embroidery, originating from punjab;
north india : majestic forts and palaces of been at the centre stage of indias rich
bandhani, a unique fashion from
rajasthan; farming centric architectural legends. gold hubs in india are centred
rajasthan and gujarat, featuring rainbow-
style of punjab; british influence in the around southern states of karnataka,
tinged fabrics often used as turbans by
grand parliament structures of new delhi; andhra pradesh and tamilnadu. silver
men and skirts and scarves by women of
amalgamation of hindu and muslim ornaments popular in rural india and
the region ; block printing, the ancient
architectural styles of old delhi; world tribal societies, form a large chunk of
trait of rajasthan ; ikat, the age-old art of
famous architectural masterpiece of taj jewellery exports from india. the states of
weaving in patan; khadi, the indian
mahal in agra ; central india : rock cut rajasthan, andhra pradesh, and
handspun and hand-woven fabric
caves of ajanta and ellora; great buddhist karnataka are famous for their finely
endorsed by mahatma gandhi; kantha
stupa at sanchi; temples and shrines of work, the local bengali tradition of crafted silver jewellery. diamonds are
orchha and ujjain; erotic sculptured embroidery; banarasi brocade, the rich found in abundance in gujarat, as majority
khajuraho temples; west india : victorian woven silks of varanasi; kanchipuram of the worlds diamonds are flown into
influence in the famous landmarks of silk, a speciality of kanchipuram, valued gujarat to be cut and polished for that
central mumbai ; influences of the indus for its gold and silver threads ; muga silk, sparkling lusture. pearls, associated with
valley civilization in the architecture of assam used in manufacturing warm wealth, purity and dignity, are found in
and fascinating step wells of gujarat ; winter clothes, and the list could go on abundance in hyderabad in andhra
east india : remains of british architecture forever! pradesh, which is the largest centre for
in kolkata and darjeeling ; east we take you behind the scenes to show pearl trading in the world! ivory engraving
himalayan architecture with tibetan you how exotic masterpieces of indian and carving is a medium of artistic
influence in himalayan foothills of sikkim; textiles are woven and designed to expression in india from times
south india : exquisite temples of precision. meet artisans and weavers immemorial. ivory inlaid furniture,
hoysalas and chalukyas ; fascinating perfecting their generations old trade, see miniature paintings, centre pieces,
ruins of hampi; maharajas palace of ancient handlooms in real life, appreciate decorative plaques, and carved elephant
mysore; colourful temples of madurai; the natural processes used for dying and figures are few popular ivory products
rock cut extravagance of mahabalipuram; printing, see the wooden blocks creating a sought from india.
backwaters architecture of kerala; galaxy medley of designs on fabric, and try your
architecture of auroville hand at making your own piece of silk!
www.traveliteindia.com 29	sruot
tseretni
laiceps


table from page 34 - table 1
e.c.i.m	m.i.c.e
our m.i.c.e team has a host of ideas to offer when it comes to your
meetings, incentives, conferences or events in the indian
subcontinent. we ensure your event is handled professionally by an
expert member of our m.i.c.e team, who remains accessible and
accountable to you at all times.
incentive tours : we create customized incentive solutions for your
clients to suit their requirements and preferences. when we start
working on your incentive request we will discuss in detail about the
nature of event, profile of client, expectation from the destination and
experience, duration of tour, pace of tour etc to suggest an incentive
tour that is most appropriate to meet your clients request.
meetings  conferences : from initial stages of venue search through themes
to post event evaluation we adopt a comprehensive approach to ensure
all aspects of the event are concurrently reviewed and assessed. we to keep your guests amused and entertained, a variety of theme events
understand and appreciate the inherent differences between different
can be organized in india. contact us for details and more ideas.
types of meetings and conferences such as a sales kick off meeting, a
pharma training, a financial forecast meeting or a bankers conference royal mughal theme : an evening of royal splendour that takes
 each conference is approached with an industry specific perspective you back in time to the golden era of the mughal dynasty, can be
to ensure we deliver on expectations. arranged at a 5 hotel or in an outdoor setting.
our first step i.e. understanding your precise requirement guides us ethnic indian village theme : recreating the splendour of an
all the way to a successful finale. this understanding navigates every indian village, an outdoor venue in a garden setting is set up to look like
important step including: a mock village, with artisans showcasing their skills, arts and crafts
 recommending  contracting of ideal event venue  recommending
indian durbar evening at a palace hotel : a palace hotel
 contracting for accommodation  theme  logo development
decorated and illuminated for the evening, where guests arrive in
promotional marketing campaign  registration services  event
camel carts, recreating the magic of the lifestyle of erstwhile
management services  efficient administrators  secretarial staff for
maharajas of india.
back-room management  audio visual requirements  set design and
production style  multilingual real time translation requirements camel safari and sand dune
emergency medical services  fully networked computerized evening : enjoy a royal nomadic
operations  organizing pre  post tours  organizing spouse experience, on a camel safari in the
programmes and arrangements for accompanying guests  travel and desert and nearby villages,
transport arrangements  airport facilitation services  organizing followed by dinner and dance at a
gifts, certificates, trophies for the event
desert camp, an experience very
unique to rajasthan.
tranquil backwaters of
kerala : cruise through the
backwaters of kerala aboard a
beautifully decorated house boat,
enjoying keralan cuisine on board and
splendid fireworks on the shores.
32 did you know? place value system and decimal system were developed in india.	


table from page 34 - table 2
m.i.c.e
our m.i.c.e team has a host of ideas to offer when it comes to your
meetings, incentives, conferences or events in the indian
subcontinent. we ensure your event is handled professionally by an
expert member of our m.i.c.e team, who remains accessible and
accountable to you at all times.
incentive tours : we create customized incentive solutions for your	
clients to suit their requirements and preferences. when we start
working on your incentive request we will discuss in detail about the
nature of event, profile of client, expectation from the destination and
experience, duration of tour, pace of tour etc to suggest an incentive
tour that is most appropriate to meet your clients request.
meetings  conferences : from initial stages of venue search through
to post event evaluation we adopt a comprehensive approach to ensure
all aspects of the event are concurrently reviewed and assessed. we
understand and appreciate the inherent differences between different
types of meetings and conferences such as a sales kick off meeting, a
pharma training, a financial forecast meeting or a bankers conference
 each conference is approached with an industry specific perspective
to ensure we deliver on expectations.
our first step i.e. understanding your precise requirement guides us
all the way to a successful finale. this understanding navigates every
important step including:
 recommending  contracting of ideal event venue  recommending
 contracting for accommodation  theme  logo development
promotional marketing campaign  registration services  event
management services  efficient administrators  secretarial staff for
back-room management  audio visual requirements  set design and
production style  multilingual real time translation requirements
emergency medical services  fully networked computerized
operations  organizing pre  post tours  organizing spouse
programmes and arrangements for accompanying guests  travel and
transport arrangements  airport facilitation services  organizing
gifts, certificates, trophies for the event	
	


table from page 35 - table 1
	e.c.i.m


table from page 35 - table 2





table from page 37 - table 1
	aidni
ni
sgniddew


table from page 37 - table 2
	


table from page 38 - table 1
lapen
fo
modgnik	
kingdom of nepal kathmandu, the capital city of nepal, is set in an exotic valley, with
ancient buddhist stupas and temples amidst stunning natural beauty.
the kingdom of nepal is an extravaganza of culture, heritage and the city is renowned for the impressive palaces and temples of darbar
square, more than 2500 years old swayambhunath stupa, the hindu
natural himalayan beauty. despite being a small country, nepal
temple of pashupatinath, the intriguing eyes of boudhanath stupa and
offers a variety of experiences such as trekking in the hilly terrains
the potters, weavers and crafts of bhaktapur.
of himalayan ranges, walking around villages and small towns and
nagarkot, located towards the north east of kathmandu, is famous
mixing with the tribes of the region, boating in serene lakes, visiting
for its panoramic views of the snowy himalayan peaks. situated approx
hindu and buddhist temples, experiencing an elephant back safari
2200 meters above sea level, nagarkot offers stunning sunrise and
and enjoying scenic flights over mount everest.
sunset views of the himalayas, including a distant pyramid of mount
everest on a clear day.
chitwan national park, set in the subtropical southern region of
nepal, is home to a variety of birds and wildlife including tigers,
nepal elephants and indigenous one horned rhino. the park offers exciting
options of walking tours, jeep safaris, elephant back safaris and river
canoe trips.
h pokhara, is situated on the shores of lake phewa, surrounded by
i m a l a y a n b a r n e n a a t p h u t a r k n i a n g r s a c n e g n e e r y a , n p d o k t h h a e r a f i a s m t h o e u s s t a f r i s ti h n t g a i p l o m i n t o u o n f t m a i a n n . y o tr f e f e k r s i n in g
dhangad hi a n na p u rn a r ange n e p a l . b o a t in g , c y c l i n g , w a l k in g a n d t r e k k i n g a r e p o p u la r w a y s t o
n epalganj p o k ha r a mount e n j o y t h e s t u n n i n g b e a u t y o f p o k h a r a .
kathmandu everest suggested itineraries
nagarkot
chitwan n.p
janakpur dharan (cid:108)touch base with nepal : kathmandu - nagarkot - kathmandu -
biratnagar pokhara - kathmandu
(cid:108)jewels of nepal : kathmandu - nagarkot - kathmandu - pokhara
chitwan national park - kathmandu
(cid:108)trekking beauty : kathmandu - chisopani - nagarkot - dhulikhel
- kathmandu
(cid:108)nepalese heights : kathmandu - duhilikhel - nagarkot-
kathmandu - kurintar - pokhara - chitwan national park -
kathmandu
36 did you know? mount everest (8,848 meters), the highest peak in the world, is located in nepal.	


table from page 41 - table 1
modgnik
nogard
eht
:
natuhb
bhumthang, a spectacular bhutanese valley, is the largest valley in hotels in bhutan
the country. popular sites in bhumthang include the kurje lhakhang,
the resting place of deceased kings of bhutan; the jambe and tamshing amankora, paro
lhakhangs, two of the oldest temples dating to the 7th century; the
uma, paro
jakar dzong, the dzong fabled to have been founded by a white bird.
bhumthang markets offer the unique speciality of the region such as taj tashi, thimphu
rich woollen textiles dyed with natural colours and yatas, a thin amankora, thimphu
woollen cloth with bright patterns often made into warm jackets and
amankora, punakha
scarves.
amankora, bhumthang
trongsa, the ancestral home of bhutans royal family, is renowned
for its trongsa dzong, one of the most impressive dzong in bhutan,
built in 1647. the dzongs labyrinth of temples, corridors, offices and
living quarters for the monks add up to a masterpiece in bhutanese
suggested itineraries
architecture. located close to trongsa is the gantey valley and
phobjika valley, well known as one of the last wintering grounds of the
(cid:108)touch base with bhutan : paro - thimphu - punakha - paro
endangered and graceful black-necked cranes that fly in from northern
(cid:108)discover bhutan : paro - punakha - trongsa - bhumthang-
china, mongolia and siberia.
thimphu - paro
(cid:108)bhutanese heights : paro - thimphu - wangdue - punakha - paro
when to travel to bhutan
the best time to visit bhutan is during dry season which lasts from
october to may. whilst december  january are cold months, they also
offer stunning views of himalayan peaks. pleasant day temperatures
allow convenient sightseeing even during winter months. being a
mountainous country, morning and night temperatures drop
significantly, even though the day may be warm and pleasant.
www.traveliteindia.com 39	modgnik
nogard
eht
:
natuhb


table from page 42 - table 1
aknal
irs	colombo, the capital of sri lanka, is the largest city and main port of
sri lanka. it is also the commercial and financial center of the country.
a bustling metropolis, the city is an attractive blend of old and new
architecture and culture. colombo is famous for its national museum,
churches, buddhist temples, parks and the focal areas of the fort and
pettah bazaar.
the cultural triangle, is the name given to the historic sites of
sigirya, dambulla and polonnaruwa, located north east of colombo.
(cid:108)sigiriya rock towers over the surrounding landscape with steep
steps leading to the ruins of the 5th century fort on top. also known
as lions rock, this ancient rock fortress is surrounded by the
sri lanka remains of an extensive network of gardens, reservoirs, and other
structures. sigiriya is also renowned for its ancient frescos,
sri lanka, the tea country island, is rich in cultural, archaeological reminiscent of the ajanta caves in india.
and natural treasures. offering ample of colonial history, sri lanka is
(cid:108)polonnaruwa, an ancient city of sri lanka, dates back to the
a land of diversity with its towering buddhas, ancient cities and
11th century. the ruins of erstwhile palaces, temples, baths and
towns, green carpeted hill resorts, national wildlife parks, tea
audience halls in polonnaruwa indicate the sophisticated lifestyle
plantations, scenic golf courses and beautiful beaches.
followed in the region in ancient times. the museum here stores a
good collection of antique statues and pottery. nearby are five
magnificent statues of lord buddha, carved from bed rock in
standing, sitting and sleeping positions.
(cid:108)dambulla caves, date back to the 1st century and provide an
illuminating insight into buddhism. these are the best preserved
srilanka
cave temples in sri lanka and one of the finest in asia. the caves
house more than 150 statues of lord buddha and intricate
paintings depicting buddha and his life.
anuradapura polonnaruwa kandy, the beautiful hill town, is set besides a lake and surrounded by
hills covered in spice and tea plantations. at its heart is the ancient
sigiriya
temple that houses the tooth relic of lord buddha. within close
dambulla
proximity to kandy is the pinnawela elephant orphanage, where you
kandy can see herds of elephants being bathed and fed, where baby elephants
negombo are hand fed with bottles.
nuwara eliya
airport
colombo ella
beruwela
uda walawe yala
bentota
tissa
hambantota
galle
40 did you know? cinnamon, the fragrant spice, originated in sri lanka.	


table from page 42 - table 2
colombo, the capital of sri lanka, is the largest city and main port of
sri lanka. it is also the commercial and financial center of the country.
a bustling metropolis, the city is an attractive blend of old and new
architecture and culture. colombo is famous for its national museum,
churches, buddhist temples, parks and the focal areas of the fort and
pettah bazaar.
the cultural triangle, is the name given to the historic sites of
sigirya, dambulla and polonnaruwa, located north east of colombo.
(cid:108)sigiriya rock towers over the surrounding landscape with steep
steps leading to the ruins of the 5th century fort on top. also known
as lions rock, this ancient rock fortress is surrounded by the
remains of an extensive network of gardens, reservoirs, and other
structures. sigiriya is also renowned for its ancient frescos,
reminiscent of the ajanta caves in india.


table from page 43 - table 1
	aknal
irs
	


table from page 46 - table 1
north india, nepal  bhutan
experience the culture and spirituality of the indian sub continent.
enrich your senses in the medley of cultural extravaganza of north
india, nepal and bhutan
rajasthan, the land of forts and palaces
rajasthan, the land of princes, still living in its historic past,
houses the largest number of forts and palaces in the world.
renowned as the land of sand dunes and camel safaris, a trip to
india cannot be complete without a visit to rajasthan
health and wellness
india is home to a wonderful collection of yoga retreats, ayurveda
(a vedic science known as the science of life) and spa resorts.
enjoy a luxurious stay at some of the finest wellness retreats in the
country
himalayan glory
in sanskrit, himalaya means abode of snow (hima means snow,
and aalaya means abode). experience the cool himalayan breeze
in the land of sages
south india  sri lanka
south india  sri lanka offer a variety ranging from ayurveda and
spas, to beaches  backwaters, wildlife, temples, heritage 
culture, luxury trains, spice plantations, hill resorts and a lot
more.
wildlife
experience the rich diversity of the flora and fauna of the indian
sub continent. the sight and sounds of a majestic elephant, a
peacocks dance, the one horned rhino, the roar of a tiger are
unparalleled experiences offered by various wildlife parks in the
indian subcontinent.
beaches and backwaters
experience the serene beaches and backwaters of the indian sub
continent
luxury trains
india offers a beautiful selection of luxury trains operating in
different regions of the country.	north india  varanasi  khajuraho  orchha  agra  kolkata  delhi
haridwar  rishikesh  amritsar  dharamsala
nepal  kathmandu  pokhara  lumbini  chitwan
bhutan  paro  punakha  thimphu  bhumthang
 mandawa  bikaner  jaisalmer  jodhpur
 udaipur  jaipur  samode  rohet  pushkar
 khimsar  ranthambore  nagaur  ranakpur
 ananda in the himalayas, rishikesh  niraamaya surya samudra, kovalam
the leela, kovalam  carnaustie ayurveda  wellness resort, marari
somatheeram  manaltheeram beach resort, kovalam  travancore
heritage, kovalam  cgh kalari kovilakom, palakkad  cgh kalari rasayana,
kollam  neeleshwar hermitage, neeleshwar  cgh swaswara, gokarna
 soukya, bangalore  kumarakom lake resort, kumarakom  cgh coconut
lagoon, kumarakom  cgh marari beach resort, marari  dr franklin
panchkarma institute, kovalam  bethsaida hermitage, kovalam
 kashmir  ladakh  dalhousie  dharamsala
 shimla  manali  mussoorie  darjeeling
 almora  sikkim
 nepal  bhutan
south india  mumbai  kochi  kumarakom  alleppey  munnar  periyar
kovalam  hyderabad  hampi  badami  bangalore  mysore  ooty
chennai  mahabalipuram  kanchipuram  pondicherry  madurai
sri lanka  colombo  sigiriya  polonnaruwa  dambulla  anuradhapura
kandy
india  kanha  bandhavgarh  bharatpur  ranthambore  corbett  pench
manas  bandipur  sunderban  kaziranga  periyar  sariska
nepal  chitwan national park
sri lanka  yala national park,  uda walawe national park  sinharaja
biosphere  minneriya national park
india  goa  kovalam  kollam  bekal  kumarakom alleppey
mahabalipuram  puri  lakshdweep  andaman
sri lanka  galle  bentota  trincomalee
maldives
 palace on wheels  royal rajasthan on wheels
 the deccan odyssey  the golden chariot
 maharajas express


table from page 47 - table 1
					
					
					
					
					
					
					
					
					
					
